The Hillsborough County School Board meets Thursday in what could be a final attempt to negotiate a money-saving remake of student attendance boundaries. For months, board members and the public have pointed out what they dislike about the idea, from the inconvenience families face in sending their kids to new schools to the racial optics of closing several mostly Black and Hispanic campuses. But it’s time that board members this week outlined a plan they could support. And those holding out for the status quo should explain how half-empty schools in minority neighborhoods serve anyone’s idea of educational equity. Members have wrangled for months over a student reassignment plan meant to save the cash-strapped district money by maximizing the use of existing campuses. Last month, the seven-member board tried and failed again to find consensus, with members complaining about everything from a rushed process and poor communications to the impact on minority students and the modest savings from closing schools. The district administration could have handled this better, but the governing board ultimately is in charge, and members have had plenty of time to engage with each other and the community. Lingering complaints about process and communications seem more like a smokescreen to rationalize the paralysis in making a tough decision. We understand the anxiety that thousands of families may face with any large reassignment of students. But that’s reality for a district with too much classroom space, and that faces continued pressures on finances and enrollment that are only expected to worsen. One-third of Hillsborough’s schools — 83 in total — operate at or below 70% capacity. Hillsborough has fewer students today in traditional public schools than it did in 2018, thanks to the increasing popularity of charters. Superintendent Addison Davis has recommended a modest plan to close five schools (four that operate at half-capacity); together with other student reassignments, the district could save about $14 million annually. That should be the starting point to wringing more efficiencies from the system and to redirect some savings back into the classroom to stem the flight of students (and their tax dollars) to charters. Thursday’s workshop is a chance to break the impasse. As difficult as closing some schools might be, Board Chairperson Nadia Combs captures the point: “We have to put people ahead of buildings.” This may be a novel concept for Hillsborough, which has never closed a school because of low enrollment in its 140-year history. But the explosion of school choice has irretrievably changed the education market. And Hillsborough needs to adapt if it hopes to not only compete but thrive. The closures would enable the district to marshal its resources and strengthen the school system going forward. Many students would be reassigned to higher-graded schools. And more children in minority neighborhoods could take advantage of more vibrant learning environments. It’s been evident for years that closures were an essential step to rightsizing a bloated bureaucracy. Practically speaking, it’s also essential if the district hopes to rebound from last year’s failed tax referendum and ask voters again next year for a supplemental tax for school operations. Davis has made this as easy as possible for the board, and it’s time for members to act. The sooner that happens, the sooner parents can plan, and the sooner the school system can become more sustainable, and more valuable to the ideals of public education. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.