Money, politics and business I stood up to Disney | Column, March 2 I have a question for Gov. Ron DeSantis in response to his column: Since he thinks that corporations should stay out of politics, does that mean that he will accept no campaign contributions from corporations in the future? It seems to me that making contributions is pretty political. Linda Thies, Dunedin Disney’s next move I stood up to Disney | Column, March 2 As a private business operator here in Florida since 1986, if I were the head of Disney World, I would shutter any further plans to improve or expand Disney in Florida. The powers that be at Disney should not allow a petty governor and gutless state officials to rule over it with an iron fist. As poorly managed as the state has become, it would behoove Disney’s senior managers to consider relocating its operation to a more favorable political and environmental location. Disney officials should start talking to other states’ leaders about relocating and make it public. Brian Valsavage, St. Petersburg Focus on actual problems Official wants parental controls in county library | March 3 So now Hillsborough County Commissioner Mike Owen is coming after county libraries. I really wish that maybe he would focus on actual problems in Hillsborough County. Seriously, who is complaining about the county libraries? I grew up going to our county libraries. My parents took me all the time. Let’s leave the libraries alone. Rachel Comellas Arocha, Lutz Why waste the money? Hillsborough must right-size its school system | Editorial, Feb. 23 It’s touted often that Hillsborough County has the seventh-largest school district in the country. I see every day how talented our workforce is and what they are capable of doing. Why did the school board ever approve over half a million dollars to be given to a consultant to tell us what we already know and have the human capital of doing on our own? We know we have some very overcrowded schools and some that are woefully underattended as well. We shouldn’t have gone and wasted that money in the first place. However, since the board and superintendent chose this option, why then are we not taking the advice of the company that we consulted with? John Kelly, Tampa