The big story: University of South Florida students typically do not attend Board of Trustees meetings. This week they did, though, to register their concerns with state-level efforts to decimate diversity, equity and inclusion programs in the university system. Officials told them that some things are beyond their control. But they also tried to reassure the students of the school’s commitment to “fostering an inclusive environment for everyone,” as president Rhea Law put it. “That is our stance and that is what we stand for.” Read more here. Critics of the efforts to dramatically overhaul Florida higher education, including proposals to eliminate entire majors, have called the initiatives “state sponsored indoctrination,” Florida Phoenix reports. Hot topics Book bans: Pinellas County school district officials said they’ll have a committee of media specialists take another look at Toni Morrison’s “The Bluest Eye,” which was yanked out of classes and library shelves. But the review won’t come in time for a return this school year. • “The Bluest Eye” was among more than 80 books the Martin County school district pulled from its shelves after receiving complaints about their content, TC Palm reports. • A Flagler County school district committee upheld two schools’ decisions to keep the book “Sold” on middle and high school shelves, Flagler Live reports. It’s a fictional account of a girl trafficked into sexual slavery. Board politics: Sarasota County School Board member Tom Edwards thanked Gov. Ron DeSantis for targeting him, giving him the chance to be an “upstander,” Mother Jones reports. “I will never step away from what I believe is the right thing to do for Sarasota County’s students, teachers, parents, and citizens,” Edwards said. • Miami-Dade County political observers are questioning why DeSantis included Miami-Dade board member Luisa Santos on his “hit list,” the Miami Herald reports. • DeSantis is attempting to shift the focus of school boards across Florida, WFOR reports. Cost of living: Many Palm Beach County teachers say they can’t afford housing in their communities, the Palm Beach Post reports. Choice: Florida’s latest voucher expansion proposal includes an allowance for part-time K-12 enrollment, which could cause major shifts in the system, The 74 reports. Social emotional learning: Florida’s attack on materials that include social-emotional learning could have a chilling effect nationally on the K-12 marketplace, Education Week reports. Superintendents: The Martin County School Board discussed how to look for its next superintendent as seven other Florida districts also seek top executives, TC Palm reports. Tallahassee action: Opening day of the 2023 legislative session found House Speaker Paul Renner offering full-throated support for the DeSantis education agenda, Florida Politics reports. DeSantis signaled support for legislation that would expand restrictions on the teaching of gender identity, and bar the use of preferred pronouns that do not correspond with biological sex at birth, Florida Politics reports. • A House bill that would bar political preferential treatment for university enrollment and employment advanced through its first committee stop, the News Service of Florida reports.  • A Senate committee favorably reported SB 256 adding new requirements on public employee unions such as teachers. It did so after hearing several union members, many who identified themselves as “proud Republicans,” oppose the bill on the grounds that it would limit their freedoms. Today in Tallahassee ... The House Ethics, Elections and Open Government Committee will consider HJR 31 on partisan school board elections and HB 411 on school board candidate residency when it meets at 8 a.m. • The Senate Education Appropriations subcommittee will consider SB 202 on vouchers when it meets at 11 a.m. • The House Education & Employment Committee will take up five bills including HB 1 on vouchers and HB 477 on school board term limits when it meets at 1 p.m. From the police blotter ... Two Bradford County brothers were arrested on accusations of making a threat of violence against a teacher and students at their school, WJXT reports. From the court docket ... The Palm Beach County school district reached a $10 million settlement in its lawsuit against vape manufacturer Juul, the Palm Beach Post reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... You can’t help but wonder, would you have done what this Pasco 8-year-old did when her team didn’t show up? Check out this Fox 13 report. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.