Jasmin’s incredible journey. The heartbreaking journey of Jasmin Cervantes-Garcia has taken a turn for the better. Last summer, the 13-year-old Wimauma girl was the sole survivor of a head-on crash in Mexico that killed her parents and grandparents. The family was returning to Tampa after an annual, weeklong vacation to Mexico to visit relatives and friends. After being hospitalized in Mexico for three weeks with severe brain injuries, Jasmin was flown back to Tampa Bay, welcomed by family members intent on helping with her recovery. Jasmin spent almost four months at Johns Hopkins All Children’s Hospital in St. Petersburg. In September, she moved to a rehab facility in Jacksonville, regaining strength and learning again to walk. She later began hourlong therapy sessions at Johns Hopkins; for her, physical and speech therapy have become a full-time job. But as the Tampa Bay Times’ Juan Carlos Chavez chronicled recently, Jasmin has started to recover her abilities, from walking slowly to eating solid foods. She has improved her comprehension and speech. Jasmin’s drive and progress are an inspiration, as is the care and support of her family and friends. An unspeakable tragedy has opened a new chapter of hope and perseverance. Hillsborough looks at MOSI. Hillsborough County commissioners took an encouraging step this week to redevelop the university area in north Tampa. The board voted unanimously to approve commission Chairman Ken Hagan’s motion to seek a private company to redevelop 74-acres of county-owned land surrounding the Museum of Science and Industry on Fowler Avenue. Proponents have long envisioned a mixed-use development that could include housing, entertainment and businesses, capitalizing on a huge tract of public land served by major transportation routes across from the University of South Florida. This is a solid idea whose time has come. As the Times’ C.T. Bowen reported, the county agreed to seek a private redevelopment partner for the property in June 2020, then later pulled the plug because of the economic uncertainty surrounding the coronavirus pandemic. The project would be part of a larger high-tech district covering 19 square miles, bordered between Interstates 275 and 75 and Bearss Avenue to Busch Boulevard. In addition to USF, the area includes major hospital and medical centers, housing and retail, and a potential mass transit corridor into MOSI. The plan could further energize a major employment center, bring new life to the Temple Terrace area and serve as a magnet for regional transit. Hagan and the board deserve credit for reviving such a promising venture. Fried leads Democrats. Florida Democrats started over (again) this week after selecting former state Agriculture Commissioner Nikki Fried as their new party chair. Democrats are hoping that Fried’s energy and progressive appeal help move the party past a disastrous midterm performance where Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis not only swept to reelection but helped carry down-ballot local races across the state. Fried, 45, who lost the Democratic primary for governor last year to former governor and U.S. Rep. Charlie Crist, replaces Manny Diaz, who in a stinging resignation letter last month cited a host of longstanding problems facing the party. Whether Fried can attract volunteers, enroll voters, enlist candidates and excite and expand the donor base remains to be seen. In her first week as chair, the party blitzed one criticism of DeSantis after another, but that display of flash was largely expected, like fireworks after a Fourth of July picnic. Fried will need to keep up the pace if Democrats hope to better compete, and become a force to be reckoned with in Tallahassee and beyond. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.