TAMPA — The Penguins come into Amalie Arena on Thursday night to fight for their playoff lives. With 22 games left in their regular season, they are clinging to the second wild-card spot in the Eastern Conference, with five teams nipping at their heels. The Lightning are comfortably sitting in the third spot in the Atlantic Division. Perhaps too comfortably. Tampa Bay, loser of three of its last four games, has to find a way to match desperation with urgency, “will and want,” and soon. “We seem to face this every single year,” coach Jon Cooper said. “So when teams look at the standings … they’re desperate. And clearly we’re not playing with the same desperation our opponents are. It’s a competitive league, and the margin of winning and losing is so fine. Desperation and will and want, that’s a big part of it. “It’s not to say our guys don’t have that, I want to make that clear. We put ourselves in a pretty good position, but this last week and a half is not what we’re used to.” The Penguins embarrassed the Lightning 7-3 on Sunday in Pittsburgh. The Sabres had more urgency last Thursday in Tampa Bay’s 6-5 overtime loss. And against the Red Wings on Saturday, the Lightning were lucky to pull out a 3-0 win, getting a tremendous performance from goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy. On Tuesday night, the Lightning looked deflated after the Panthers scored three goals in the first period and didn’t match their intensity until the third period in a 4-1 loss. “We’re getting outplayed by just, whether it’s just small pockets of the game or what have you,” Cooper said. “The Pittsburgh game, we just had a dreadful five minutes or whatever it was (at the end of the second period). We got outplayed in the Detroit game, and I thought much of the Buffalo game until the third period, we were getting outplayed. “Our formula hasn’t changed. Our game plan hasn’t changed. So it’s probably something inside us, and we’ve just got to figure that out.” After the loss to the Panthers, there was a lot of talk about execution and accountability. Captain Steven Stamkos and left wing Nick Paul echoed their coach, saying it was a moment in the season when the players needed to look at themselves in the mirror and get sorted. The core of this Lightning group has been to three straight Stanley Cup finals. It knows what the team needs to do once it gets to the playoffs. But there are 22 regular-season games remaining on the Lightning’s schedule, and opponents will get only hungrier. The Lightning have to start countering them with experience, talent and execution. “These teams come down the stretch of the season and they are at the point that every play is life or death,” defenseman Ian Cole said. “Every puck out of your zone, and every puck into their zone, every turnover and every icing can be game over. So I think we just need to build that desperation into our game. “And I think that it’s hard to manufacture that maybe earlier in the season when you’ve had as much success as this team has had, but we’re getting down to the end of the season now. We need to get that mentality going that every play matters.” Contact Kristie Ackert at kackert@tampabay.com. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.