There is a law about this I stood up to Disney | Column, March 2 Gov. Ron DeSantis’ column about his actions regarding Reedy Creek Tax District is indicative of his punishing Disney rather than leveling the tax district playing field. Florida has long championed special tax districts for real estate developments. There are about 1,900 of them. As a practicing attorney, I was involved in setting up tax districts some four decades ago. Florida’s 1980 Community Development District law is the prime law providing such a right for developers. Under that law, developers have many of the same rights granted to Reedy Creek, including the right to issue bonds and levy taxes within the district. The tax district law allows an elected board of supervisors rather than supervisors who are political appointees. The 2023 legislative amendment to the Reedy Creek Tax District gives DeSantis the right to appoint Reedy Creek district officials — and he appointed his political supporters with little or no familiarity with the Reedy Creek tax district mission. Why didn’t DeSantis modify future rights for Reedy Creek to be on par with the Community Development District law? Why aren’t Reedy Creek tax district officials elected as that law provides? Richard Jacobs, Tierra Verde Capitalism and private property I stood up to Disney | Column, March 2 Gov. Ron DeSantis audaciously spears Marxism in his column when it is he who has stripped Disney of some property rights in this, a capitalist country. Stephen Phillips, St. Petersburg Just say no I stood up to Disney | Column, March 2 As Gov. Ron DeSantis’ supporters appear to agree with his definition of freedom for Floridians, I wonder about all of us who disagree. Why aren’t we raising our voices in objection? I, for one, am not willing to let my silence be misconstrued as consent. Making guns more available, but books less so, feels to me like making us all less free and less safe. Is the right to carry a gun, and possibly use it, to be protected while the right of people (even younger people) to read and possibly discuss a book of their own choosing not? If you care, lift your voice now. In the desire to gain more power and control, often the nice man who seems to like you may be the most dangerous. Pushing back means saying “No, not in my state, not on my watch!” Joan Butcher, Bradenton