Three people, including a 6-year-old girl, were shot in the head during a home invasion in Land O’ Lakes on Friday morning, Pasco deputies said. All three people were in critical condition after the shooting at the home in the Lake Padgett area, Sheriff Chris Nocco said at a news conference. The sheriff’s office said the home is near Parkway Boulevard and Burlington Road in Land O’ Lakes. Deputies believe four people targeted the home after the person who Nocco referred to as the “main resident” of the home got into a fight last week at an adult establishment in Tampa. On the way home from that business, Nocco said, there was a road rage incident between the resident and those involved in the Tampa altercation. Since the incident, the two parties have continued to communicate, the sheriff’s office said in a news release. “We believe there is a correlation between last week’s incident and this morning’s shooting,” Nocco said. About 4:40 a.m., Friday, the 60-year-old father of the home’s main resident arrived at the Lake Padgett house and found four people were outside. The father got into a confrontation with those people and was shot in the head, Nocco said. After the father was shot, the four people went inside the home and began screaming and looking for the main resident, who was not home, Nocco said. The intruders went into the master bedroom, where they found a 36-year-old woman, who is the main resident’s girlfriend, and their daughter, the 6-year-old girl. The woman and the child were also shot in the head, Nocco said. “There is no reason to shoot innocent people while they’re sleeping in their beds,” Nocco said. One victim was able to call 911, Nocco said. When deputies arrived, the father was able to give deputies some information before being taken to a local hospital. The main resident arrived shortly after the deputies did, Nocco said. Deputies are continuing to investigate and said there is no threat to the public. No arrests have been made. Nocco asked anyone with information on the incident, including any footage from surveillance cameras in the area, to contact the sheriff’s office.