One of my fondest memories of covering the 2004 Republican Convention in New York was the sight of hordes of protesters standing in front of the Fox News headquarters on Sixth Avenue repeatedly chanting: “SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP!” It was a delicious thing of beauty. Alas! If only chief Fox fabulist Rupert Murdoch had listened. Chances are, many of you have had the horrific experience of sharing a Thanksgiving dinner table populated by a fulminating uncle claiming a political party that traditionally couldn’t find its keister even with the help of Lewis and Clark and Ernest Shackleton and David Livingston somehow magically stole the 2020 presidential election in favor of Joe Biden. Why do they believe it? Because the greatest collection of liars since Bernie Madoff last dined alone told them it was true, perhaps only proving that gullibility procreates at an alarming pace. Now, Fox News is fending off a $1.6 billion libel suit brought by Dominion Voting Systems, which has accused the broadcaster of intentionally defaming Dominion by repeatedly airing false and misleading accusations that the company manipulated votes to swing the election from President Donald Trump to Biden. Here is a wild, crazy, zany prediction. Dominion will win this legal action handily. Good grief, Joe Pesci’s bumbling lawyer in “My Cousin Vinny” could win this case. Your Irish setter could win this case. The rotting head of lettuce that outlasted British Prime Minister Liz Truss could win this case. The only remaining question is how many zeroes will be on the check Rupert Murdoch will have to sign over to Dominion? Lots. Why the certitude? It’s simple. Libel law can be complicated, but in essence a news organization can lose a libel suit if it: (A) publishes false and defamatory information, and (B) it publishes that same false and defamatory information with malicious intent. In lengthy depositions leading up to a trial next month, Murdoch and his Bowery Boy collection of duplicitous oafs have admitted they did indeed attack Dominion on Fox News although they knew their corporate character assassination of Dominion was full of beans, wrapped in balderdash and enveloped in piffle. Under oath Murdoch admitted he should have been more proactive in quickly ordering his hosts to denounce the myriad election lies swirling around Dominion and the election results. Duh! But he didn’t, because he feared losing audience share (and thus, profits) to other right-wing “news” outlets like One America News and Newsmax, who had seized upon the conspiracy theories to boost their ratings. But the craven hypocrisy doesn’t end there. On air, folks like Vladimir Putin’s pedicurist Tucker Carlson, Trump bootlicker Sean Hannity and chief fabulist Laura Ingraham ranted and raved and clutched their pearls over the outrageous theft of the presidency by Biden and his minions. Day after day they happily gave an unchallenged forum for the addled, the crazed and the loopy, the salesmen (and women) of deceit like so-called attorneys Sidney Powell and Rudy Giuliani, as well as the My Pillow huckster Mike Lindell. They advanced insane notions that included Dominion using a secret algorithm to switch votes and that the company was the brainchild of the late Venezuelan dictator Hugo Chavez. None of it was true. Worse yet, Fox knew it was all a steaming pile of hooey. Off the air and behind the scenes, Murdoch, Carlson, Hannity, Ingraham and other Fox toadies were exchanging numerous emails admitting what they were putting out to the public was pure gibberish. Carlson conceded the claims of Dominion voter fraud were absurd, that Powell was delusional and that claims of fraud were “disgusting.” Off the air. In private. Oooops. You might be wondering why, after all the self-incriminating evidence, not to mention Dominion’s more than 3,000 emails to Fox informing the network that what it was saying about the company was flat-out wrong, isn’t it reasonable to wonder why Murdoch simply doesn’t settle out of court? One very good reason might be that Murdoch knows any settlement would require Carlson and Hannity and the rest of the Fox propagandists to appear on air and read a statement that would say they knowingly lied, deceived and played their audience for the chumps that they are. It might be the only time “Fair & Balanced” ever made an appearance on Fox News. Wouldn’t that be delicious?