Places, please! The David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Performing Arts has announced its 2023-24 Broadway season, and the lineup ranges from musicals based on movies (“Beetlejuice,” “Mrs. Doubtfire” and “Moulin Rouge! The Musical”) to new productions of classics like “Funny Girl” and “Company.” In addition to the nine-show Broadway series, The Straz will present three encore engagements: “Jesus Christ Superstar,” “The Book of Mormon” and “Les Misérables.” Straz Center president and CEO Greg Holland said in a news release that the performing arts center is also working with the producers of London’s West End musical “Choir of Man” to create a Tampa-only production in the Jaeb Theater. Current Broadway season ticket holders will receive renewal invoices the week of March 13 and must renew by April 17 to guarantee their seats. Season tickets are on sale now. Prices for the nine-show season package range from $361.75 to $980.50. For more information, call the Straz Center ticket sales office at 813-229-7827 or visit strazcenter.org. Individual show tickets will go on sale at a later date, to be announced. Events, days, dates, times, performers and prices are subject to change without notice. Here’s the lineup. The Choir of Man (Oct. 3-Nov. 26): Nine guys drinking at a working bar on stage perform pop, classic rock, folk, Broadway and pub tunes. Held in the Jaeb Theater. Beetlejuice (Oct. 24-29): Based on Tim Burton’s iconic film, the musical tells the story of unusual teenager Lydia Deetz, whose life is upended by a recently deceased couple and an irreverent demon. Funny Girl (Nov. 28-Dec. 3): Fanny Brice’s dreams of a life on the stage come true — to everyone’s surprise — in the musical that includes iconic songs “Don’t Rain On My Parade,” “I’m the Greatest Star” and “People.” Company (Jan. 9-14, 2024): This new production of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth’s Tony Award-winning musical is helmed by director Marianne Elliott (“The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time,” “Angels in America”). The musical comedy follows Bobbie at her 35th birthday party, where all her friends are asking why she isn’t married. Moulin Rouge! The Musical (Feb. 7-18, 2024): All the excess, splendor and romance of Baz Luhrmann’s film are remixed in a musical mashup that is the winner of 10 Tony Awards, including Best Musical. Girl From the North Country (March 27-31, 2024): This Tony Award-winning new musical reimagines 20 of Bob Dylan’s songs including “Forever Young,” “All Along the Watchtower,” “Hurricane,” “Slow Train Coming” and “Like a Rolling Stone.” Set in 1934 in Duluth, Minnesota, the lives of a group of wayward travelers intersect in a guesthouse. Mrs. Doubtfire (April 2-7, 2024): Based on the beloved film starring Robin Williams, the new musical follows an out-of-work actor and the lengths he’ll go to for his kids. Peter Pan (April 30-May 5, 2024): The new production of the classic musical features songs including “I’m Flying,” “I Gotta Crow,” “I Won’t Grow Up” and “Neverland.” Clue (May 28-June 2, 2024): Based on the cult 1985 movie and inspired by the classic board game, six mysterious guests assembled at Boddy Manor are in for a night full of murder, blackmail and intrigue. Jesus Christ Superstar (March 5-10, 2024): The new production of Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber’s iconic musical pays tribute to the historic 1971 Billboard Album of the Year with a score that includes “I Don’t Know How to Love Him,” “Gethsemane” and “Superstar.” The Book of Mormon (April 16-21, 2024): The nine-time Tony Award-winning Best Musical written by the creators of “South Park” follows the adventures of a mismatched pair of missionaries, sent halfway across the world to spread the Good Word. Contains explicit language. Les Misérables (June 11-16, 2024): Cameron Mackintosh presents the acclaimed production of Boublil and Schonberg’s Tony Award-winning musical set against the backdrop of 19th century France.