TAMPA — Orlando Gudes has been under fire for most of the last four years. The District 5 East Tampa council member’s first term was marked by Mayor Jane Castor saying she would remove him if she could after city investigation found Gudes had created a hostile work environment for an aide. Gudes didn’t resign his seat and has framed his re-election effort, at least partially, around his defiance of Castor. He has mended fences with the mayor in recent months, but can still be a harsh critic. And now for the twist: his opponent on the ballot, Gwendolyn “Gwen” Henderson, is also the aide’s sister. District Overview: The district covers East Tampa, Ybor City, downtown and crosses the Hillsborough River into part of West Tampa. Nearly 50% of the district’s 58,239- voters are Black, making it the city’s only majority-minority district. The largest voting segment, at 28%, is Black women, a data point that could work in Henderson’s favor. Candidates: Gudes, 55, was elected in 2019. A retired police officer, Gudes lives in East Tampa. Henderson, 58, who lives Tampa Heights, is a Jefferson High School business career and technical education department head. Issues: Both Gudes and Henderson say that affordable housing is their top priority, but they also stress raising wages for working people to help afford those homes. Gudes told the Tampa Bay Times editorial board that he stood by his failed 2022 attempt to create a rent stabilization program. He also pointed to the council’s passage of a tenant’s Bill of Rights to address issues between landlords and tenants. And he touts his role in mandating that the city’s Community Redevelopment Areas, tax-collecting zones situated in poorer parts of the city, to spend at least 30 percent of their agency’s unused funds on housing. Henderson told the Times that she believes everyone in the city deserves to have a roof over their heads, noting that many of her fellow younger teaching colleagues can’t afford to buy a house in Florida’s third-largest city. Like Gudes, Henderson also draws a link between affordable housing and higher wages, saying she’ll work with the mayor and council members to continue bolstering the city’s workforce development program. Finances According to the latest campaign finance reports, here’s how the candidates are faring in the money game. Gudes: Contributions: $36,127 Expenditures: $16, 479. Henderson: Contributions: $12,580 Expenditures: $5,965 Stakes Gudes has said he has put his strained relations with the mayor behind him. She has appeared with him at several city events. Castor, who has endorsed or indicated strong support in two council races featuring political foes Bill Carlson and Lynn Hurtak, hasn’t come out against Gudes. Henderson says her approach to mayor-council relations will be similar to how she has dealt with high school principals in decades of teaching: collaborative when possible and persuasive when necessary. She has said she doesn’t plan to make her sister’s history with Gudes part of her campaign. How to Vote: Early voting runs through Sunday, you can find locations and hours here. Tuesday is Election Day. Voting hours are 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. You can find your precinct here.