The big story: The growing trend of parents challenging school library books is about to hit the Hillsborough County School Board. A school-level complaint against the non-fiction book “This Book Is Gay,” which discusses issues of interest to LGBTQ youth, ended without the title being removed. That result prompted the speaker of the Florida House to criticize the district for allowing the book, which includes some material about sex acts, to remain. Now the mom who challenged the book has asked the board to review the school’s decision. “It seems like there’s been a very slippery slope in what we allow our children to be exposed to,” parent Stephanie Ascroft said. Read more here. Pinellas County teens are leading the charge against their district’s decision to yank “The Bluest Eye” from their courses and classrooms, WUSF reports. The district pulled the Toni Morrison novel after a parent complained, but did not file a formal challenge. Alachua County school district officials said they haven’t seen any reason to remove any books from their libraries, as they work to comply with the latest state laws, the Gainesville Sun reports. Hot topics The DeSantis agenda: With Gov. Ron DeSantis seeming to inch ever closer to a presidential bid, interest in his education policies is growing nationally. On Friday, the Boston-based radio program On Point spent nearly an hour on the governor’s influence over K-12 schooling. You can read the transcript or listen here. • The Republican dominated Legislature is poised to give DeSantis everything he’s asked for on education and a variety of other topics. More from the USA Today Florida Network. College choices: Some LGBTQ youth are looking into higher education options outside of Florida and other states that have targeted their rights, NBC News reports. School board politics: Republican lawmakers are pushing to change the face of board elections by setting tighter term limits and returning partisanship to the races, WPTV reports. Teacher hiring: The Duval County school district has joined an initiative aimed at attracting and retaining more Black and Hispanic male teachers, WJXT reports. Today in Tallahassee: The Senate Education and Employment Committee takes up six bills including SB 244 on K-12 teachers when it meets at 1 p.m. Other school news A Palm Beach County math teacher was removed from his class over a “racially charged” incident. It was not the first time the teacher was accused of acting inappropriately with students, the Palm Beach Post reports. A Polk County parent wants her school district to reconsider the name of Spessard L. Holland Elementary School. She says the former Florida governor supported segregation, which does not represent all children, Bay News 9 reports. The Sarasota County school district abruptly removed its schools police chief. It offered no official reason, the Herald-Tribune reports. Three Alachua County elementary schools are in line to get new attendance boundaries. The district wants to even enrollment so no school is overcrowded or under capacity, Main Street Daily News reports. The Florida Department of Education announced a new job apprenticeship program for blind and visually impaired students. It’s the first of its kind in the nation, WFTV reports. From the court docket ... Pleadings and appeals continue in the ongoing constitutional challenge of Florida’s law restricting the instruction of race issues in colleges and universities, the News Service of Florida reports. Before you go ... Depeche Mode is on its 2023 world tour, which includes two Florida stops in October. The band also has a new album coming out later this month. How do they sound nowadays? Check out this recent performance of “Personal Jesus” from The Colbert Show. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.