Less sheriff, more governor Governor picks board for Reedy Creek | Feb. 28 Now that our power-hungry governor has taken over Disney’s Reedy Creek, he has announced “There’s a new sheriff in town.” So now Gov. Ron DeSantis is Disney World sheriff after taking over the duly elected state attorney’s job in Tampa — or at least putting his own person in place. And now he’s gunning for school boards in several counties. He’s also the sheriff of the Pinellas Housing Authority and New College of Florida as well as being the expensive travel agent for migrants in Texas. Oh, and he’s also the chief morality officer. I wish he had time to be governor and work on the huge property insurance crisis, the failed state unemployment system, affordable housing and gun violence. I worry that DeSantis is too easily distracted to be governor ... or president. Dan Spice, Holiday Lawsuits when it suits them Media the next DeSantis target | Feb. 28 Let’s see if I’ve got this right. Gov. Ron DeSantis and the Republican Legislature want to make it harder for citizens to sue their insurance companies but easier for politicians to sue the media. Does this bother anyone else? Emiliano Quindiagan, St. Petersburg Why they’re at it ... A look at new DeSantis book | March 1 Question: Will Gov. Ron DeSantis’ book be banned? Ross P. Alander, Tampa Something to hold on to A look at new DeSantis book | March 1 As an independent voter, it sickens me to hear all the hype about Gov. Ron DeSantis possibly running for president. Didn’t we learn our lesson with Donald Trump? The division and awful rhetoric will happen with DeSantis as well. Look what is already happening. I will never forget how DeSantis chastised those high school students for wearing masks. And banning books and saying Florida won’t be a “woke” state. He is taking us back years. Please, give me something to hold on to, someone to run who will return our country to the high standards and standing we once had. I am so worried for this country. Joyce Lindsey, Tarpon Springs No longer so fresh A look at new DeSantis book | March 1 When Gov. Ron DeSantis first came on the scene, I thought he was a breath of fresh air. But as time went on, I realized he is a control freak and has a “my way or the highway” mentality. He says we are free. But we are not free if we have to do as he says. Sharon R. Jones, Valrico