Mandates or meh? The problem with Florida | Letter, March 7 Gov. Ron DeSantis won a landslide of those who actually voted, but because he got only 32% of the vote of all registered voters, that means he isn’t really what Florida wanted? In Tuesday’s Tampa elections, Mayor Jane Castor won the support of 80% of those who voted — 22,974 people. But there are 241,277 registered voters in Tampa, meaning she got only 9.5% of the vote of those who were eligible to vote. If, as a letter asserts, “much of Florida either does not agree with (DeSantis) or doesn’t care,” what similar logic should we apply to Castor? James Molloy, Pinellas Park Sticks and stones ‘You ain’t seen nothing yet’ | March 8 Gov. Ron DeSantis’ new line, both on Murdoch’s Fox TV channel and in his state of the state speech, is “You ain’t seen nothin’ yet.” Neither has he. Just wait until former President Donald Trump finds an even more negative nickname for him than Ron DeSanctimonious. He’ll get the same treatment — maybe worse — than “Little Marco,” “Lyin’ Ted,” “Low Energy Jeb,” and every other opponent has gotten. Let’s see how well his speechwriters have prepared him for that inevitability, which will indicate how thick or thin his skin is. Paul S. Cooper, St. Petersburg Change the channel Fox News isn’t news at all | Column, March 6 Lately all we hear is the outrage of the left against Fox News from Tucker Carlson’s portrayal of Jan. 6 from columnist Mona Charen to comments from the usual Democratic leaders. Well, Fox must be doing something right as it sweeps all the nightly cable ratings. And if it’s all that bad, there’s this invention called a remote control. Scott Shimer, Land O’ Lakes Issues that matter ‘You ain’t seen nothing yet’ | March 8 It comes as no surprise that the Florida governor didn’t mention the rising cost of housing, property insurance, utility rates or the teacher shortage in his state of the state address. He did not mention that 900,000 of his constituents will lose health insurance through Medicaid or the prediction of more toxic blooms this summer. I don’t think that he and his fellow Republicans care about those issues. It is as simple as that. David Burg, Tampa