Jane Castor had no real competition in her race to be reelected as Tampa’s mayor — just a blank line on the ballot below her name where voters could opt to write in a candidate of their choice. This week, Castor coasted into her second term with 80% of the vote. But more than 5,600 city voters opted for that blank line. Some memorable picks? More than a few wanted former Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady. Tampa’s strip club king Joe Redner got a few nods, as did Mickey Mouse, Donald and Daisy Duck, Santa Claus and Spongebob Squarepants. Also written in, if not quite correctly: former President “Barrock Obama” and Florida Gov. “Don DeSantis.” Some voters stuck with local politics, writing in City Council candidates already in down-ballot races, including Charlie Miranda, Lynn Hurtak and Bill Carlson. County commissioner Harry Cohen, outspoken Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd and well-known lawyer John Morgan all got a nod, too. Some voters had local political dramas on the brain, writing in Andrew Warren, the Hillsborough state attorney suspended by the governor, and former City Council member John Dingfelder, who resigned as part of an agreement to resolve a lawsuit. Sports mascots — the Lightning’s ThunderBug, USF’s Rocky D. Bull and the Bucs’ Bucco Bruce — also got mentions. Then there was the inevitable “Joe Mama.” Votes were cast for “anyone else,” “none of the above” and “no confidence.” “Someone who cares,” said one plaintive entry. “Any other human alive,” said another. “ANYONE WHO WILL MAINTAIN CLEAN PURE WATER,” a specific-issue voter wrote. “Anyone who can fix roads!” wrote another. Some entries clearly required further explanation: “The Seminole Heights Coyote,” who got several votes. “Donna at 3 Coins.” Nostalgia votes went to former Tampa Mayors Bob Buckhorn, Pam Iorio, Dick Greco and Sandy Freedman. Also, to Walter White, possibly the character from “Breaking Bad.” But 2,138 of the 5,693 write-in votes went to the one person who actually qualified to be a write-in candidate: Belinda Noah, an attorney who previously has run for office. Write-in candidates go through the qualifying process, including filling out a financial disclosure form, but they don’t have to pay fees. “But your name also doesn’t go on the ballot,” said Hillsborough Supervisor of Elections Craig Latimer. “Electors must then fill in your name for it to be a valid vote.” That means this week’s votes for Wonder Woman, Batman and Baby Shark did not count. The race also included 4,144 ballots cast with no vote at all in the mayor’s race. Notably, Latimer himself came in as a write-in candidate — which may or may not have had anything to do with the fact that his name was printed on the pen given to voters with their ballots. And at least one voter in Tuesday’s election just wrote: NO.