ST. PETERSBURG — Given the Rays’ organizational focus on pitching, the most interesting sights among the young players at spring training are typically on the mounds, and the sweetest sounds are 60 feet, 6 inches away as catchers’ gloves pop with the product of their latest crop of talented arms. But a swing shift has been in the works over the last few years, as the hitters are starting to make some noise. Between the players in major-league camp, and others at the minor-league base, the Rays now boast an impressive list of rising young batsmen, topped by consensus top-35 prospect Curtis Mead, and running a dozen deep, including fellow infielders Carson Williams, Kyle Manzardo, Junior Caminero and Jonathan Aranda, who reached the majors last year. “We definitely feel like we’re one of the best minor-league hitting organizations there are,” Mead said. “And there’s a lot of confidence in the younger guys. So, yeah, we’re kind of excited to see what we can do.” Arms, and bats, race The Rays in no way abandoned what is essentially an organizational mission statement to develop as many arms as they can. “The pitching,’’ manager Kevin Cash said, “can’t go away.” But they have found ways to concurrently build up their offensive options. Specifically in acquiring young position players in trades — some barely noteworthy at the time — to supplement those drafted and signed internationally, and develop them rather than pay market price for hitters ready for or already in the majors. “I wouldn’t be surprised if they said, ‘Hey, in all these trades that we make, reading the market, teams don’t want to trade position players in the upper minors. We can’t really get those guys unless we overpay for them, so we need to make them ourselves,’” said ESPN prospect/draft expert Kiley McDaniel. “(As if) there is an underlying strategy of, we need to stock up on position players everywhere we can get them — college, high school, performance guys, whatever position — because we just can’t get them.” The Rays have had remarkable success in acquiring pitchers from the discard pile, or those who struggled or plateaued elsewhere, and molding them into impactful big-leaguers. McDaniel compared that to “the running back approach in the NFL, which is, ‘We’ll get them where we can, we’ll turn them into guys that they’re not.’” But that’s a tougher task with position players, with seemingly fewer opportunities to try. “Hitters do like a slow, linear climb of value, and pitchers are like roller-coasters all over the place,” McDaniel said. “So it would make sense to invest early in hitters, home grow them, get them as early as you can. Then jump on the pitchers at the right times and hopefully you get a deal.” In McDaniel’s ranking of Rays prospects, nine of the top 10 (with starter Taj Bradley the exception) and 11 of 13 are position players. MLB Pipeline has nine position players of the top 13. Baseball America (which still considers injured starter Shane Baz a prospect) has six of eight and 12 of 16. The Athletic’s Keith Law has nine of 12. And there is quality with the quantity, as Mead and Manzardo are on all four top 100 league-wide lists, Williams on three, Caminero two, Aranda one. Being resourceful The Rays have been resourceful in assembling the hitting depth. Mead, an Australian, was acquired in 2019 from the Phillies as a 19-year-old who had played only in the entry-level Gulf Coast League, for pitcher Cristopher Sanchez. Caminero, similarly, in 2021 as an 18-year-old from Cleveland for pitcher Tobias Myers. Williams and Manzardo were two of their top three picks in the 2021 draft. Aranda was signed out of Mexico at 17. And there are more. Other notable trade acquisitions include outfielders Kameron Misner and Heriberto Hernandez, and infielders Osleivis Basabe and Austin Shenton. Recent draftees are first baseman Xavier Isaac, infielders Greg Jones and Cooper Kenney, and outfielders Mason Auer and Brock Jones. International signees include infielders Willy Vazquez and Carlos Colmenarez. “The list goes on and on,” said Shenton. “All those guys, it’s really impressive, With all the organizational rankings and whatnot, I think we’ve gotten overlooked. … All those guys bring a lot to the table and they’re big-league talent. It’s very fun to watch right now.” Plus, they’re not only talented. “First, it’s exciting, right? We’ve got a lot of young guys coming up,” said assistant hitting coach Brady North, who formerly worked in the minors. “But I’d say the most impressive thing is their knowledge and what they have an understanding of — already at such a young age — and what they’re bringing in from the analytical side, and just game prep in general.” And they’re eager to swing their way to the big leagues, with Mead likely the first to arrive sometime this year. “Everyone is super excited here,” Mead said. “We’ve got a bunch of young, talented guys. And I think we’re all ready to showcase what we can do.” Hit parade A consensus order of the Rays’ top hitting prospects based on rankings by Baseball America, ESPN’s Kiley McDaniel, MLB Pipeline and The Athletic’s Keith Law: 1. Curtis Mead, INF 2. Carson Williams, SS 3. Kyle Manzardo, 1B 4. Junior Caminero, INF 5. Jonathan Aranda, 1B 6. Mason Auer, OF 7. Osleivis Basabe, INF 8. Willy Vazquez, INF 9. Brock Jones, OF 10. Carlos Colmenarez, INF On deck: Greg Jones, INF; Kameron Misner, OF; Heriberto Hernandez, OF • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.