ST. PETERSBURG — Mason Montgomery was excited just to pitch on the Tropicana Field mound for the first time, even if his inning in the Rays’ 4-2 exhibition loss to Minnesota didn’t go well, and there were only about 2,500 people in the stands. The lefty, a 6-foot-2, 205-pound sixth-round pick out of Texas Tech in 2021, has quickly risen among the Rays’ ranks. He was named their top minor-league pitcher after splitting last year between High A Bowling Green and Double-A Montgomery, and is considered their No. 2 starter prospect behind Taj Bradley. “The atmosphere wasn’t quite maybe what you’d expect, but it was still really cool,” he said. “It definitely had that big-league type feel to it. Obviously, you’re playing against guys and playing with guys that have been up there. It was a really cool experience.” Montgomery, 22, said he is always nervous when he takes the mound, but probably a little more so knowing front office execs, manager Kevin Cash and the big-league coaches were all watching. That and a lack of command were factors in the back-to-back, one-out walks he allowed that led to a run (and potentially more had leftfielder Randy Arozarena not made two notable catches). “I think just trusting my stuff is another thing, too,” he said. “Sometimes you get in your head a little bit.” Manager Kevin Cash also was intrigued, noting his 93-mph fastball, among other attributes. “I’ve heard plenty about him … and I know he’s very well liked,” Cash said. “He’s got a little bit of a unique arm action, looks like he hides the ball very well. He does look physical, a strong guy, put together (well).” Game details: Twins 4, Rays 2 The Rays (2-3-1) had a 2-1 lead going to the ninth on a Rene Pinto RBI single and some good hustle by prospect Ronny Simon, but lost when non-roster reliever Andrew Gross allowed three runs in the ninth, even with a replay review changing a home run hit by DaShawn Keirsey Jr. to a double. … Infield prospect Osleivis Basabe had another hit and is now 5-for-7 for the spring. Cash noted how he often hits the ball hard. … Cash praised Arozarena for the two catches, and the decision to throw to second base rather than home. “That was probably the highlight of the day, him and (starter Zach Eflin, who struck out three of four batters).” Medical matters First baseman Yandy Diaz is sidelined by a hip flexor and likely won’t play in a game until after the Wednesday off-day. … Infielder Taylor Walls, sidelined by an oblique strain since before the start of camp, is “progressing well,” Cash said, and he started some “very minimal” baseball activities Thursday. … Reliever Calvin Faucher (oblique) is throwing at 120 feet, expecting to return to the mound soon and be ready for opening day. … Shane Baz, who stayed in Texas during the first two weeks to continue his rehab from late-September Tommy John elbow surgery, joined camp and said he has been progressing well and expects to start throwing in three to four weeks. Miscellany The Rays had played 14 previous exhibition games at Tropicana Field in their first 25 seasons, usually just prior to opening day. … Pre-game workouts were split between the Trop and the nearby Huggins-Stengel complex. ... The first couple innings were played with only three umpires, as the fourth, Bryan Knight, was delayed due to traffic related to an accident near the Sunshine Skyway Bridge. … A Running with the Rays 5K, starting and ending at Tropicana Field, will be held April 16, with both in-person and virtual options. There also will be a Family Fun Run. See raysbaseball.com/5K. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.