TAMPA — Victor Hedman likely won’t return to the lineup for tonight’s game against the Golden Knights at Amalie Arena, but the Lightning’s top defenseman is encouraged by his recovery from what initially looked to be a scary injury sustained Sunday at Carolina. Hedman skated for the second straight day, participating in the optional morning skate, but didn’t do much and was one of the last players off the ice, indicating he’s doubtful to play against Vegas. “We are trending in the right direction,” Hedman said. “It’s never fun to get hurt and not be able to finish the game. You don’t know how the progress is going to be, but two straight days on the ice and feeling good.” Hedman took an awkward tumble into the end boards in the second period of Sunday’s loss to the Hurricanes and remained down for several minutes, only reaching back to hold his lower back. He was helped up and eventually skated off the ice under his own power. He tried to return later in the game but returned to the locker room after a short 11-second shift. Hedman did not play in Tuesday’s win over the Flyers but participated in Wednesday’s full practice in Brandon and today’s morning skate. With the Lightning in the midst of an intense part of their schedule — 19 games over a 33-day stretch, including three straight back-to-back weekend sets — they likely are being cautious with Hedman, who leads all skaters with an average ice time of 23:59. “We’re playing lots of hockey as of now and you’ve just got to focus on the process, and that goes for playing or not playing,” Hedman said. ”You’ve just got to trust the process and try to get back as quick as you can.” Hedman has six goals and 42 points with a plus-10 goal differential in 60 games this season. His absence likely means a third straight game for left-shot defenseman Haydn Fleury, who played 13:23 on Tuesday and had a season-high three shots on goal against the Hurricanes. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.