TAMPA — Perhaps the most-watched City Council race this year is between incumbent council member Bill Carlson and Blake Casper, whose family owned most of the McDonald’s restaurants in the area. Carlson is a staunch opponent of Mayor Jane Castor, who won’t face a challenger on the ballot at the March 7 election. Castor has indicated she supports Casper, making this something of a proxy war between the mayor and her council opponents. High-profile Republicans such as Pam Bondi, Ashley Moody and Chad Chronister have lined up behind Casper, a longtime donor to Republicans, including Gov. Ron DeSantis and former President Donald Trump. Carlson, a Democrat, has a strong network of supporters and endorsements from the fire union and West Central Florida Labor Council. Casper has picked up the nod of the local police union. District Overview District 4 covers the bulk of South Tampa, east of Dale Mabry Highway and south of Kennedy Boulevard, including Davis Islands and Harbour Island. Republicans outnumber Democrats by about 5,000 voters out of an electorate of 69,181. There are also nearly as many nonaffiliated voters as those belonging to either party. White voters make up 77 percent of the electorate. The largest group of voters is over the age of 66. Candidates Carlson, 55, president of the public relations firm Tucker Hall, was elected in 2019. He was widely considered to be weighing a run against Castor. He lives in Bayshore Beautiful. Casper, 49, recently announced the sale of his family’s fast-food franchises. He also owns the Oxford Exchange in South Tampa. This is his first run for public office. He lives in Davis Islands. Issues Carlson has fought against the mayor’s wastewater reuse project, PURE, saying it is too expensive and potentially harmful to the environment. He has led the effort three times to stall the project. He has also accused the mayor and her staff of trying to retaliate against him and other council members for opposing her. Casper is running primarily on a pro-police platform, criticizing Carlson’s stance on policing during the 2020 protests following the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer. At a recent South Tampa forum, Casper said he also opposes PURE, but notes a state law requires to city to stop discharging wastewater into the bay by 2032. Finances According to the latest campaign finance reports, here’s how the candidates are faring in the money game. Carlson: Contributions: $77,500. Expenditures: $11,203. Casper: Contributions: $124,370. Expenditures: $30,246. Stakes: Carlson and Casper both have vocal, committed supporters and their differences on policy are stark. A win for Casper would please Castor. A Carlson victory would cheer those who feel the mayor has overreached. How to vote: Early voting runs through Sunday; you can find locations and hours here. Tuesday is Election Day. Voting hours are 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. You can find your precinct here.