ST. PETERSBURG — Dave Wills, the Rays’ engaging and gregarious radio broadcaster for the past 18 seasons, died early this morning, according to the team. Wills, 58, joined the Rays in 2005, along with partner Andy Freed, and they became immense favorites of Rays fans and considered one of the top duos in the majors. “Dave was an outstanding broadcaster, a great friend, and an even better person,” Rays principal owner Stuart Sternberg said in a statement. “He had a remarkable talent for bringing the game to life for our fans and was a vital part of the Rays family. We will miss him dearly, and our thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones during this difficult time.” Rays manager Kevin Cash, who left Tropicana Field Sunday morning to visit with Wills’ family at their home then returned for the game, also was hit hard by the news. “Shocking, sad, heartbreaking covers all of it,” Cash said. “You have a choice to certainly think about the sadness of it, but you can also think about the person that he was and what he meant to all of us. “The amount of conversations you have over the course of nine years, every day for six-seven months, and to be able to call him one of your closest buddies that you see every single night, it was an honor to have known him for that stretch.” Joe Maddon, who managed the Rays from 2006-14, said, simply: “He loved his family. He loved his work. And we all loved him.” Former Rays communications chief Rick Vaughn, who was involved in hiring Wills and Freed for the 2005 season and remained a close friend, noted how Wills relished his role. “Baseball lost one of its most informative and entertaining storytellers, and I feel like I lost a brother,” Vaughn said. “He was so happy here in Tampa Bay and so eager to represent the Rays wherever he went.” Wills previously spent 11 years on the White Sox’s radio team in his native Chicago after starting his play-by-play career with the minor-league Kane County Cougars from 1991-95. He also did radio play-by-play for the University of Illinois-Chicago men’s basketball team and assorted other broadcast work. “Dave was the classic Chicago South Sider: friendly, welcoming, big voice, big character, caring and die-hard when it came to his sports,” White Sox communications vice president Scott Reifert said. “The Chicago genes never completely left him, and he was celebrated each time the Rays visited. Dave loved baseball, and his voice and presence will be missed in ballparks and by fans across the major leagues. A sad day.” Wills missed the final two weeks of the 2022 regular season as the result of “a little bit of a heart situation” after being hospitalized in Toronto. He said at the time he was diagnosed with supraventricular tachycardia which, per mayoclinic.org, is an irregularly fast or erratic heartbeat (arrhythmia) that affects the heart’s upper chambers. But he rejoined the team for the playoff series in Cleveland and looked to be in good health and spirits while working games this spring, most recently Saturday in Tampa. The Rays canceled a planned radio broadcast of Sunday’s exhibition against the Orioles and were to have a moment of silence before the game. The team will honor Wills with a special pregame tribute during the season, with details to be announced at a later date. In a news release, the team also noted: “During his time with the Rays, Wills became a beloved figure among fans for his passion, enthusiasm and expertise. He called some of the most memorable moments in Rays history, including the team’s run to the World Series in 2008 and 2020. Wills was known for his impeccable play-by-play calling, his insightful analysis, and his infectious personality. His contributions to the Rays organization and the Tampa Bay community will never be forgotten.” Wills is survived by his wife, Liz; son, Alex; and daughter, Michelle. This story will be updated. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.