The big story: The debate over how much money Florida’s proposed voucher expansion will cost rages on as lawmakers approach the start of their 2023 session with the issue as one of the leadership’s top priorities. The bill sponsors say the added price tag will be about $210 million, and they’ve deconstructed critiques that say it will be billions of dollars. On Wednesday, the independent Florida Policy Institute doubled down on its analysis, pointing out how recent amendments to the bill stand to increase the expense by more than it initially projected. See the Florida Policy Institute’s latest summary for details. Critics pointed to other states such as Arizona, which have created education savings accounts similar to what’s in the Florida proposal, and noted how low estimates led to big financial gaps in the state budgets. “I think we are in a space where we have the opportunity to learn from the mistakes of the people who have gone before us,” said Damaris Allen, of Families for Strong Public Schools. Read more from Florida Politics. Hot topics Teacher pay: The Volusia County school district overcame months of impasse to conclude a teacher contract deal that provides raises plus a longevity supplement, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. Gender issues: The chairman of the state Senate Judiciary Committee filed legislation to further restrict instruction about gender identity, also aiming to prevent the use of preferred pronouns that do not reflect a person’s biological sex at birth, Florida Politics reports. Two similar bills have been filed in the House. Early learning: Palm Beach County school district leaders encouraged families to use voluntary prekindergarten, saying about half of children entering kindergarten come unprepared, WPTV reports. Conservative think tank: New College interim president Richard Corcoran said he sees no reason why the school can’t create one, Florida Politics reports. Charter schools: Tallahassee Community College took steps toward opening a collegiate charter high school, using funding from a state grant that went to five community colleges, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. Cell phones: The Pasco County school district launched a “thought exchange” to receive public input on what rules should be for student cell phone usage while at schools. Campus housing: The University of South Florida Sarasota-Manatee is opening its first student dorm, the Bradenton Herald reports. Board politics: Indian River County residents packed their School Board meeting to show their support and opposition, after Gov. Ron DeSantis called for voters to oust two incumbents, WPBF reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... The Mandalorian launched its third season. Are you still a fan? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.