ST. PETERSBURG — The unusual circumstances of the Rays spring training game at Tropicana Field allowed Zach Eflin to get a head start on fitting in here. Tampa Bay’s big free-agent offseason acquisition got the lay of the clubhouse and playing in the dome. And during his short spring training debut Thursday, in a 4-2 loss to the Twins, the team got a closer look at the veteran sinkerballer. “It’s not that bad to be able to settle in, move in here and then be able to get used to the mound, pitching in the dome,” Eflin said. “So as much as it sucks to lose the complex in Port Charlotte (due to damage from Hurricane Ian), it helps us get acclimated to the playing surface.” The Rays targeted Eflin as a good fit early this winter because of how they feel they can help him reach new heights. The right-hander gives the rotation a different look from their featured core of young, power arms. Eflin showed how he effectively uses movement and exploits the weakness in swings to get outs. “Efficient, he’s all over the zone, around the zone. I know he said that he was hoping to throw first-pitch strikes, but from my view they all look like they were right there,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “But he came right back. I mean, that’s kind of what we’re thinking we’re gonna get as a guy that just throws a ton of strikes and then establishes the zone, has the ability to kind of work off the edge. He’s got a lot of movement, the front-door sinker that he threw the lefty, that froze him, that’s part of his game. “We just don’t have many guys like that.” Eflin threw 17 pitches, 11 for strikes. He faced four batters in 1 1/3 innings and struck out three, including with the front-door sinker to Edouard Julien that left him just looking at the pitch as it nipped the strike zone. “I’ve really always been like a purebred sinkerballer. Even little league, I threw a sinker and I’ve just always attacked guys,” Eflin said. “Getting drafted by San Diego, my first pitching coach was Burt Hooton in low Class-A and he was just the biggest believer in attacking the (strike) zone and pounding guys and putting them on their heels. So I owe a lot to Burt Hooton with that. I was able to kind of define my location at a young age.” That dedication to painting the strike zone had Eflin ranked in the top 91st percentile among big-league pitchers in walk rate (4.8%) and the 94th percentile in hard hit percentage against his pitches last season. That didn’t always translate to success, however. He was a contact pitcher with one of the worst defenses in baseball behind him in 2022. The Phillies had the second-worst team defense in the metric outs above average (minus-37), according to Statcast. They were 25th in the majors in defensive runs saved (-33), according to the Fielding Bible. The Rays were in the middle of the pack with 13. The Rays see a few ways to improve some of Eflin’s pitches. For example, they have worked on a new slider grip this spring. The biggest improvement, however, may just be pitching in front of a better defense. “It’s definitely going to help adjust the surface lines of what he’s pitched to the last couple of years in terms of ERA,” pitching coach Kyle Snyder said. “Our defense playing behind him, I think it’s gonna be really interesting and big difference maker for him.” “He has a bit more ‘pitch to contact,’ but he’s also a guy that we believe just with his stuff, his swinging strike rate can increase, in particular to right-handed hitters,” Snyder continued. “But there’s no doubt, just the ability to have the defense that we have behind him, is going to make a difference.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.