 As a mother of a transgender daughter, I have never felt more heartbroken and angry than I do today. My family and I are preparing to move from our home in Florida to a new state in the mid-Atlantic — all because of Gov. Ron DeSantis’ so-called “anti-woke” agenda. DeSantis and his administration have made it clear that they do not support transgender rights or protections. From banning transgender girls from participating in school sports to restricting access to health care for transgender individuals, their actions have left us feeling unwelcome and unsafe in our own community. As a parent, it is my duty to protect my child and ensure that she has access to the same opportunities and rights as her peers. Unfortunately, under DeSantis’ leadership, those rights are being stripped away. My daughter is a bright, talented and kind-hearted individual who deserves to live in a world where she can be accepted for who she is. Instead, she is constantly met with hate and discrimination from those who are supposed to protect and support her. She has been very vocal in fighting for the rights of all transgender people since she came out at 12. This is a fight she has had to fight merely to exist. Moving from the only state I know is not an easy decision, but it is one that we must make in order to ensure our daughter’s safety and well-being. We are lucky to have the resources and support to make this move, but not everyone is as fortunate. It breaks my heart to think about the countless transgender children and families who are unable to leave their communities and are forced to endure the hateful rhetoric and policies of politicians like DeSantis. We must do better for our children. We must fight for their rights and protections, regardless of their gender identity. Our children deserve to be loved, accepted and celebrated for who they are, and it is our duty as parents and community members to make sure that happens. I urge Gov. DeSantis to reconsider his stance on transgender rights and protections. His policies and actions are causing real harm to real people, and it is time for a change. It is time to stand up for what is right and just, and to ensure that every child, regardless of their gender identity, has the opportunity to thrive and succeed. Heather St. Amand is an activist, organizer and parent in the Tampa Bay area.