In a battle of negative mailers in the contentious South Tampa-based District 4 City Council race, Blake Casper is accusing incumbent Bill Carlson of undermining law enforcement, while the local Democratic Party, backing Carlson, is calling Casper a “Trumper” and “developer.” Casper has based his campaign on a law and order platform, accusing Carlson of wanting to “defund the police.” His mailer says Carlson voted against money for equipment, training, reducing response times and hiring more officers. But those contentions are all based on a single vote, Carlson’s September vote against the overall 2023 city budget, which included the items. Carlson responded that he has urged hiring 200 more officers and increasing pay for city employees, including police. He said he voted against the budget because “the administration refused to consider a rollback” in the tax rate or increasing the road repair budget. “The budget included too much fat and pet projects,” he said. “I want them to spend the money more wisely. I separately voted for everything they’re saying I voted against.” Carlson also boasted an endorsement last week from former interim police Chief Butch Delgado, who retired after Mayor Jane Castor, a Casper ally, passed him over for the permanent post. Casper, meanwhile, released a campaign video from former Chief Brian Dugan blasting Carlson, saying Carlson “has consistently tried to undermine the police department” and “consistently tried to drive a wedge between the police and certain parts of our community.” The Police Benevolent Association has endorsed Casper. The Democrats’ mailer calls Casper “highly partisan” as well as a Trump supporter and developer. Casper has contributed heavily to Republican candidates and causes for years, including $105,600 to Donald Trump in 2020 and $214,200 to Ron DeSantis in 2021, but has also given occasionally to Democrats. Casper became wealthy as a McDonald’s franchisee but has undertaken hotel and restaurant projects recently. But, he said, unlike many developers, “We’re not buying, developing and selling, we’re developing, owning and managing. We’re going to be here and we have an interest in sustainability. That makes a difference in our outlook and interests.”