TAMPA — It’s not time to push the panic button — yet. With 22 games to go in the regular season, however, the Lightning are just not playing well. With the Panthers coming into Amalie Arena Tuesday night and beating them 4-1, the Lightning dropped to 5-4-3 in the month of February. The loss was also the first in regulation for the Lightning (37-18-4) on home ice in 17 games, dating back to Dec. 6 when they lost to the Red Wings at Amalie. The Panthers (30-26-6) snapped the Lightning’s franchise-record streak of 16 consecutive home games in which they won at least a point. The way the Lightning lost Tuesday and have played over the last four games, however, is what frustrated Jon Cooper, not the result. “We’re not ringing alarm bells right now, but it is a little troubling, what’s been going on,” the Lightning coach said. “It’s been tough because you usually get some breaks, a little practice time where you can iron some things out, but we don’t have that. So you kind of have to rely on what you’ve done the first 50 games to get you through this. “But there has to be a will and a want. And right now we’re just maybe picking and choosing when that happens and plus our execution, quite frankly (stinks) right now,” Cooper added. “I don’t know what’s going on. It’s almost like we can’t make three consecutive passes and I don’t know why, because we’re too good for that.” After losing to the Penguins 7-3 on Sunday and needing Andrei Vasilevskiy’s  45 saves to beat the Red Wings on Saturday, Cooper has been looking for a response. Even the acquisition of  physical forward Tanner Jeannot, in a trade meant to bolster a team that needed more forechecking, didn’t jolt the Lightning in his debut Tuesday night. They opened the game strong and physical against a Panthers team that embarrassed them  7-1  three weeks ago coming out of the all-star break.  The Panthers, however, got their legs under themselves quickly and went back on the offensive. They took a 3-0 lead in the first 17 minutes, 37 seconds, outshooting the Lightning 16-4 after the first 20 minutes. From the slot, Eric Staal deflected a pass from Josh Mahura that flew in over  Vasilevskiy’s glove  6:19 into the game. Anton Lundell outraced Zach Bogosian for a loose puck and slapped in the Panthers’ second goal of the night. Eetu Luostarinen snapped in a rebound at the 17:37 mark. The Panthers also had a goal disallowed in the first. “It’s just been a tough stretch... we’re just not playing well enough,” Lightning captain Steven Stamkos said. “We’re not executing well enough. And it’s on us as players to demand more of ourselves and be better. This is a disappointing one. Coming off the game that we had (Sunday in Pittsburgh) you can say it was at the end of back-to-back (games) and let’s refocus at home, but then after one period, its three-zip. “That’s unacceptable.” Anthony Duclair scored an empty-netter with 4.9 seconds left in the game to finish off the Lightning’s rough night. Tampa Bay’s lone goal came when Brayden Point scored on the power play at the 11:39 mark of the second. It was his 70th point of the season. The Lightning had two goals overturned. Nick Perbix’s goal in the second period was challenged and waved off for an offsides violation. In the third, Stamkos’ goal was taken away after a review showed Alex Killorn had interfered with goalie Sergei Bobrovsky. Vasilevskiy made 37 saves, Bobrovsky  29. “When you get a couple of tough games, confidence is a tricky thing, especially at this level,” Stamkos said. “You want to sustain it when you have it and when you don’t, you just have to try and calm things down and be positive and reinforce the things that we know we can do. “But it’s just not good enough right now.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.