A couple of weeks ago President Joe Biden came to Tampa to talk about the economy, but used the platform to once again tout his commitment to Social Security. He said, “I’ll defend Social Security and Medicare.” This is the politics of the status quo. Candidates and elected officials will tell you what they won’t do and what their opponents will do; without leaving a trace about what actually needs to be done to close the gaps in the program’s finances. Biden won’t cut benefits, but hasn’t said how he hopes to keep the promises that the program has made. This problem isn’t isolated to President Biden or his party. Republicans are equally vague about what needs to be done. They promise to “Save and strengthen Social Security and Medicare” but offer little insight into how. It is time for both parties to stop talking about defending Social Security, and put some action into those words. For all of the criticism and all of the concern expressed in the media about the ill will of Republicans toward Social Security, there is no plan from anyone in Washington that would reduce benefits as much as Social Security is scheduled to reduce itself in 2035. That is not a long time off. The current forecast means that someone turning 76 today on average expects to outlive the system’s ability to pay scheduled benefits, and that assumes that the economy cooperates. About half of these people will be turning 88 in 2035, and are apt to hear the news of drastic benefit cuts. Of course, a lot could happen over the next dozen years. At the same time, we need to temper any optimism with the fact that Congress has failed to take any action over the last 40 years. If fixing Social Security were easy, it would already be done. There is only one fact about Social Security on which all experts agree. The longer we wait, the harder it gets. This means that doing nothing today is basically toxic to the program. We can’t protect Social Security by doing nothing. The Republican Study Committee, a bloc of more than 160 conservative lawmakers, has released a plan that would dramatically reduce benefits of those approaching retirement. The problem I see is that no one has taken the proposal seriously enough to ask the Social Security Administration whether the plan would even work. As harsh and unfeeling as opponents believe the Republican Study Committee’s plan is, no one knows how much it would reduce benefits or whether those changes are sufficient to solve the problem. Democrats remain $20 trillion apart on  the problem Washington needs to solve. On one end of that spectrum, the Social Security 2100 Act would raise $10 trillion in new money, all of it from the rich. The legislation would spend that money so fast that lawmakers needed to allow the increase in benefits to expire after 5 years. At the other end of the spectrum, Sen. Bernie Sanders and Sen. Elizabeth Warren have introduced legislation that would generate an additional $33 trillion. The one aspect of Social Security on which no politician is working is restoring the program’s independence of politics. Former President Franklin Roosevelt insisted upon a self-sufficient system which delivered earned benefits to eligible beneficiaries. Nothing could be worse in the mind of FDR than politicians debating who does and who does not need benefits. Social Security should be a certainty serving those who need predictable income, not wedge politics serving politicians hoping to move voters around at the margins. In terms of certainty, there is no reform needed more than legislation which would explain to voters what would happen in the event of an insolvency of one of Social Security’s trust funds. As the Congressional Research Service points out, no one knows how the system-wide reductions to benefits would be applied to the individual. That needs to change. Today many people in or approaching retirement believe that they will get 75% of their promised benefits. The possibility of evenly distributed reductions seems to be the least likely outcome in the event that Congress cannot come to terms with the growing imbalances of the system. In the event of the exhaustion of a trust fund, the Social Security Administration would need to prioritize payments in some manner, and that discussion does not need to wait. Brenton Smith writes on the issue of Social Security reform with work appearing in Barron’s, Forbes, MarketWatch, TheHill, USAToday, and more. He can be reached at BrentonCSmith@yahoo.com.