It will take several more weeks to determine the makeup of Tampa’s next city council, and to get a clearer picture of what Mayor Jane Castor faces after winning a second, four-year term. But Tuesday’s city election has already produced some positive results, and offers several lessons about the state of local politics in Tampa. First, hard work matters. Council member Bill Carlson cruised to reelection in his South Tampa seat, defeating wealthy Tampa businessman Blake J. Casper, a first-time candidate who challenged Castor’s top council nemesis. We don’t agree with Carlson on every issue, but he does his homework, takes the job seriously and regularly engages with his constituents. Casper, who raised more than $466,000 for the race (compared to Carlson’s $137,000) never articulated a compelling reason for running or offered much of an agenda. That can work for candidates seeking higher office, but for local government, voters look for the genuine article. Another bright spot was the longshot victory by first-time candidate Gwendolyn “Gwen” Henderson over incumbent Orlando L. Gudes for the east Tampa council seat. Gudes, a former Tampa police officer who was first elected in 2019, drew fire after an investigation that concluded last year found credible claims he made offensive comments about women in the presence of a former aide. Henderson, that aide’s sister, is a longtime educator who despite being outspent by Gudes edged him by 75 votes out of a total 5,194 cast, according to unofficial returns. That shows a few things — perseverance, the value of every vote and the public’s expectation of elected officials. And that name I.D. cuts both ways. Voters also made nuanced choices, navigating through crowded races to oust council Chairman Joseph Citro while propelling council member Charlie Miranda to the April 25 runoff for a West Tampa seat. Citro placed third in a four-way contest, while Miranda fell only 50 votes short (out of a total 8,155 cast) of surpassing the 50% threshold that would have won him the five-person race outright. The results show that the power of incumbency rests with a candidates’ record, and that voters know the difference between change and change for change’s sake. The results also provided something of a reflection on Castor. The incumbent mayor won 80% of the vote against a write-in candidate whose name did not appear on the ballot. Facing the same circumstances in 2015, incumbent Mayor Bob Buckhorn won 96% of the vote. In 2007, then-Mayor Pam Iorio beat two named opponents on the ballot with 79.5% of the vote, about the same as Castor’s share against a no-name challenge Tuesday. Of the candidates Castor endorsed in four council races, two lost, one won and another — Janet Cruz, the mother of Castor’s domestic partner — placed second to secure a runoff spot. That 5,693 voters chose a write-in as either a genuine alternative to Castor or as a protest should give the mayor something to think about as she enters a second term. Many council candidates campaigned to the left of Castor, a 63-year-old Democrat and former Tampa police chief, calling for new approaches to housing, policing and other issues, more openness at City Hall and new legislative checks on the executive branch. Progressives seem to have a taste of blood, and that alone could change the dynamics with a termed-out mayor. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.