We thought that Ben Sasse hit the jackpot when he was selected as the University of Florida president, because some of the provisions of his contract were precedent-setting. However, he was taking over a public flagship, and the contracts for these presidents have become increasingly lucrative and complex. A million dollars a year seems to have become the norm for the presidents of the nation’s top universities. That was then. On the heels of Sasse’s lucrative contract comes another million-dollar-a-year contract for a president — an interim president — of a public university in Florida, the New College of Florida. (Bear with us: We’ll explain how a $699,000 base salary is actually worth a million bucks.) The New College board of trustees announced their intent to appoint Richard Corcoran a few weeks ago and just approved his contract. He holds a law degree from Regent University and is best known as a politician who served for eight years in the Florida House, including two years as speaker. Before serving in the Legislature, he was the chief of staff to then-state Rep. Marco Rubio. Most recently Corcoran served as the Florida education commissioner. According to its website, “The Department of Education serves as the single repository of education data from school districts, state and community colleges, universities and independent postsecondary institutions ... serving approximately 2.8 million students, 4,400 public schools, 28 colleges, 202,500 instructional staff, 46,000 college professors and administrators, and 340,000 full-time staff throughout the state.” The Department of Education oversees a budget of nearly $25 billion and is reported to have a staff of approximately 2,500 employees. As commissioner, he was paid $276,000. As we’ve stated on many occasions, public university presidents are typically the highest-paid group of public employees in any state. Corcoran’s new contract makes that point. Based on our analysis, the potential taxable annual value of his contract is just over $1 million per year, considerably more than his predecessor. President Patricia Okker’s base salary has been reported as $305,000 vs. Corcoran’s $699,000 base salary as interim president. Her bonuses and perks were also considerably less than Corcoran’s. We wondered how Corcoran’s contract compared to that of another recently appointed interim president, Teresa Woodruff of Michigan State University. Here is what we found. We calculated Corcoran’s total compensation to be just over $1 million per year. It includes a base salary of $699,000, a potential performance bonus of up to $104,850, a supplemental retirement contribution of $104,850, a housing allowance of $84,000 and a car allowance of $12,000 plus the cost of insurance. At Michigan State, Woodruff’s total compensation is slightly less, $960,000. It includes a base salary of $800,000 and a “continuity bonus” of $160,000. In addition, she is required to live in the university-owned presidential home and is provided with an “automobile from the University Department of Police” for official travel. We don’t know if she is allowed to use the lights and sirens. Like most presidents, both have some perquisites included in their contracts. Both are permitted to serve on corporate boards and retain any income from such service. There are some limitations placed on Woodruff that do not exist for Corcoran. Both contracts provide for spousal travel. Corcoran’s contract also provides for his children’s travel when it is in the interest of the university. Corcoran and Woodruff are provided with membership in professional associations. Corcoran’s contract also provides for “private club memberships.” There is no specified limitation on the types or the number of such memberships. Woodruff has a similar benefit, although it is more clearly defined. One is a membership in the University Club of Michigan State University and the other is “a country club selected by you.” For both of these interim presidents, their contracts include not just the monthly dues but the cost of joining these clubs. We assume this to be an initiation fee. It is unclear if they can retain these memberships at the end of their contracts. While their contracts are similar in many ways, their institutions are not. Michigan State has an operating budget of approximately $3.2 billion while New College’s operating budget is about $54 million. Michigan State has nearly 50,000 students and over 4,400 faculty. New College has fewer than 700 students and about 125 faculty. Michigan State has Division I athletics, a medical school, law school and offers over 300 graduate degree programs. New College doesn’t have an athletics program other than a handful of clubs, doesn’t have a medical or law school and offers a single graduate degree program. Michigan State and New College do have two things in common. One is that they are both public institutions. The other is the striking similarity in the compensation of their interim presidents despite the differences in the size, scope and complexity of the institutions. However, the financial burden of the president’s compensation packages on their students is vastly different. The cost per student of the interim president’s compensation at Michigan State is $19.33 while at New College is it $1,458.20. Put another way, according to openpayroll.com the highest-paid faculty member at New College makes about $140,000, not including the former president who is now a faculty member. At Michigan State, the highest-paid faculty member makes nearly $400,000. Based on our analysis of over 300 contracts and compensation for public university presidents over the past 15 years, by any metric, we believe that Corcoran’s compensation is well outside the norm for a public institution like New College. As our colleague recently wrote on these pages, “The self-declared small-government conservatives are the ones now abusing power in their attempt to take control of public colleges and universities.” They appear to be willing to spend any amount to do so. James Finkelstein is professor emeritus of public policy and Judith Wilde is research professor of public policy at the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason University.