NORTH PORT — Tyler Glasnow had no indication anything was wrong Monday before he threw the fastball that led to the left oblique strain, which will sideline him for at least part of April, if not longer. “Definitely frustrating,” Glasnow said Wednesday on a media call. “I think doing all the stuff I do to try and stay healthy is probably the most frustrating part about it. But I think it’s one of those things, it just kind of kind of happens.” Glasnow, 29, was eagerly looking forward to the start of this season, having missed much of 2021 and most of 2022 due to Tommy John elbow surgery; he returned in late September. He said he will work to “dominate the rehab” and try to not be too disappointed at his latest setback. “It definitely kind of sucks but at this point me just being all sad about it doesn’t really do anything,” he said. “The timetable of six to eight weeks is what it is regardless of my mentality. So I’m not really gonna mope or anything. I’m just gonna use this time to get really strong. “And hopefully I can address any sort of inefficiencies and use this time to figure out certain things about my body to try and minimize the chances of this happening again." He did acknowledge, as manager Kevin Cash said Tuesday, that a potential positive is limiting the need for the Rays to manipulate his workload by restricting his innings coming off the surgery. Now when he returns to action he should be unbridled. “I guess this takes care of that,” he said. McClanahan’s eventful afternoon Shane McClanahan allowed one hit and one walk over two innings, hit 97 mph, threw 21 of 36 pitches for strikes, looked good and felt great in his spring debut. But there was more to his day, as he noted “some new things that are going to be fun to adapt to." First, McClanahan was called for a pitch clock violation for not finishing his warmups in time for the leadoff first batter (which he addressed by sprinting to the mound to start warmups ASAP for his second inning). Then in facing his fourth batter, he was cited by home plate umpire Chris Segal for a quick pitch — delivering before the hitter was ready — and assessed a balk, which seemed to create considerable confusion among all parties, who tried to talk it out. “It’s just one of those misunderstandings," McClanahan said. “We’re all trying to figure it out on the fly, and we’re trying to make it work." Game details: Rays 3, Braves 3 Luis Patino, among the leading candidates to replace Glasnow, worked a 1-2-3 inning in his first outing coming off an injury-marred and frustrating 2022. “We need Luis to pitch good, but also feel good,” Cash said. “The velocity was there, he’s mixing his pitches well, throwing strikes, he’s pretty convicted. So very good outing for him.” … Recent signee Ben Gamel made his Rays debut, going 0-for-2 but making several nifty plays at first base, where team officials want to see if the primary outfielder looks comfortable. … Outfielder Josh Lowe, competing potentially with Gamel and Luke Raley, had two good at-bats, a hard line out to left and a massive homer to right, and looked good in the field. “Josh had a big day,” Cash said. … The Rays (2-2-1) had a 3-1 lead in the eighth but non-roster righty Braden Bristo allowed the Braves to tie. ... Cash said it was good to see former Rays reliever Nick Anderson, who looked sharp in throwing an inning for his new Braves mates: “I’m happy for Nick. He looked really good. ... Nobody wants to see that guy have success as much as we do,  I can assure you, because he’s meant so much to our club for a pretty fun run.” Miscellany Catcher Christian Bethancourt played five innings then headed out to pack, leaving Thursday to join his Panama teammates for the World Baseball Classic in Taiwan. Minor-league reliever Joe LaSorsa is also headed there to join Team Italy. … The Rays play the first of 13 spring games at Tropicana Field on Thursday, hosting the Twins at 1:05. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.