The big story: Another video of violence in school — this time a St. Johns County student beating another bloody — went viral after students circulated it on social media. The St. Johns school administration issued a warning against making and sharing such videos. Many districts have such rules, saying they aim to protect student privacy. It’s a response to one recently reported after a similar situation in Broward County. The parents of the victim in this attack — along with many others in the St. Johns community — questioned whether that was the appropriate reaction. “It’s crucial for me now to be able to have that to show how my son was assaulted and couldn’t defend himself, and that nobody in the classroom came to his aid,” the child’s mother said. Read more from WJXT. A Flagler County school aide is seeking an injunction against a student accused of violently beating her, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. The attack was recorded by a school security camera. In the schools Board politics: Brevard County School Board member Jennifer Jenkins sued chairperson Matt Susin, contending he illegally withheld public records, Space Coast Rocket reports. Book challenges: Another challenged novel will remain on the shelves of two Flagler County high schools after committees reviewed the book and found it appropriate, Flagler Live reports. • Potential book bans have become the subject of regular protests and rallies at Brevard County School Board meetings, Florida Today reports. • Gov. Ron DeSantis and the Florida Department of Education issued a press statement asserting that the state does not ban books. DeSantis said the effort is to remove books with pornographic sexual content, the NY Post reports. • The Florida Freedom to Read Project contended that the state’s laws limiting student access to certain types of books amounts to censorship and his harmful to education, WPTV reports. • Leon County teachers said the government leaders should stop trying to politicize classrooms over books, WTXL reports. Bus driver shortage: The Bay County school district will offer hiring bonuses to new bus drivers at it seeks to fill vacant positions, the Panama City News Herald reports. Diversity and inclusion: Seventy-eight schools in Manatee and Sarasota counties participated in Embracing Our Difference Day by reading books about inclusion, kindness and respect, the Bradenton Herald reports. Security: The Lee County school district will investigate participation in the state’s school guardian program, which allows trained school employees to carry concealed weapons, WINK reports. Sex education: The Leon County School Board delayed its vote on proposed human growth and development curriculum after receiving complaints from Moms for Liberty members, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. Superintendents: Candidates for the Brevard County superintendent job have begun applying as the May 2 selection date approaches, Spectrum 13 reports. • Some Martin County School Board members said they would consider an inside candidate to become their next superintendent, as finding external candidates is becoming difficult, WPEC reports. • The Charlotte County school district has received four applications for its superintendent job, the Charlotte Sun reports. The deadline is March 31. • Flagler County superintendent Cathy Mittelstadt should have a clearer sense of her future in the district after an April board workshop, Flagler Live reports. Her contract expires in June. Turnarounds: The Bay County School Board allocated $5 million to provide added support for its seven D- and F-rated schools, WMBB reports. From the court docket ... The Orange County school district settled its lawsuit against the Juul vaping company for $5.4 million, WKMG reports. Tallahassee action Bell schedules: House Speaker Paul Renner set later start times for middle and high schools as a priority of the 2023 session, calling it a zero-cost solution to improve academic outcomes and mental health concerns. • Lawmakers will consider the pros and cons starting this week, Florida Phoenix reports. School board elections: The House Education committee advanced a measure that would ask voters to consider setting eight-year school board term limits, Florida Politics reports. Vouchers: Bills to expand vouchers and establish universal education savings accounts advanced through another round of committees, Florida Politics reports. • Questions about funding and accountability continued to arise, WFSU reports. • Critics argued the voucher expansion would create more segregation, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. • Gov. Ron DeSantis suggested that high-wealth Floridians might not need added state funding to support their school choices, WPTV reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The House Choice and Innovation subcommittee will consider HB 733 on school start times and HB 259 on extracurricular activities when it meets at 8 a.m. • The House PreK-12 Appropriations subcommittee meets at 2 p.m. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Janelle Monae has something new out. Love watching the dancers float through “Float.” • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.