Just disband the Legislature DeSantis’ sway over state | March 5 Why not save a few dollars by having the Florida House and Senate disband and let our plucky governor do whatever he wants? He could replace the Legislature with an automatic rubber stamp. That’s effectively what’s going to happen in any case. Richard Lawrence, St. Petersburg All the answers DeSantis’ sway over state | March 5 Why are we handing all the power to Gov. Ron DeSantis? Do we really think one man has all the answers? Aren’t we the people who want to keep government out of our lives, not have him in everything? He has control of the Senate and House here in Florida. He even drew up congressional maps. He seems to have increasing control of immigration, books, history and schools. Teachers don’t know what’s legal and what’s not. I think that he uses terms like “woke” and “culture wars” just to confuse us. Some of us are not falling for his nonsense. I just hope there are enough of us. Mary A. Sheppard, Riverview Gutting public schools Proposed education bill sails through committee | March 7 It is horrifying to realize the changes that will be coming to public education when the proposed education bill is passed by our Republican Legislature and signed into law by Gov. DeSantis. Make no mistake. The goals of this bill are to eliminate teacher unions and to gut public education. This law will exacerbate a teacher shortage, which is already critical. Shelley Foster, Clearwater Let’s improve relations Cuban ambassador’s Tampa dinner sparks protest | March 6 Tampa and Cuba celebrate a deep historical connection. However, recently, our city has played host to a series of embarrassing episodes directed at anyone trying to even recognize this simple fact. Last weekend, a small group of Cuban Americans interrupted the dinner hour at Mise en Place to scream accusations at members of Tampa’s political and business community meeting with the Cuban ambassador. Every day, planeloads of Cuban Americans fly directly from Tampa International Airport to Havana. Every day, hundreds of Cuban Americans in Tampa send care packages and remittances to their families on the island. However, if you live in Tampa and care to even talk about changing the bitter status quo that exists between our country and Cuba, the message is clear: You can be threatened, intimidated and harassed. Graham Sowa, Tampa