TAMPA — Mayor Jane Castor won 80% of the vote in Tuesday’s municipal election, albeit without an opponent on the ballot. But it was not all roses for the mayor as she coasted into a second term. Four of the six City Council races on the ballot are headed to an April 25 runoff. They include a key citywide District 3 race between Lynn Hurtak and Janet Cruz, the mother of Castor’s domestic partner. Hurtak has pushed measures to curb the mayor’s power and has stood in the way of other central policy priorities of Castor’s, who endorsed Cruz. And voter rejected the mayor’s endorsements in two other races that could affect her relationship with the council. Here are four takeaways from Tuesday: The write-in vote against the mayor was higher than expected Castor won overwhelmingly to be sure, but nearly 20% of voters wrote in someone else for mayor. It’s not clear yet how many people voted for the qualified write-in candidate, Belinda Noah, or chose to write in, say, Tom Brady for mayor. By comparison, in 2015 then-incumbent mayor Bob Buckhorn received 96% of the vote when he faced a write-in and no other candidates qualified to run. What does this mean? That’s still unclear, but Castor critics eagerly pushed the relatively high write-in vote as a sign that a not-insignificant portion of the electorate was in the anyone-but-Jane camp. Voters mostly ignored Castor’s endorsements Castor endorsed Gwendolyn “Gwen” Henderson, who didn’t raise as much money or have the name recognition of embattled incumbent Orlando Gudes in District 5, the city’s only Black majority district. Henderson narrowly won, the one victory for the mayor, who clashed with Gudes in her first term. A city investigation launched under Castor found that Gudes had created a hostile workplace for a former aide, who happens to be Henderson’s sister. While Henderson said that’s not why she ran, that cloud no doubt hung over Gudes. Other candidates with the mayor’s formal backing didn’t fare as well. The citywide District 1 incumbent and mayoral ally, chairperson Joseph Citro, failed to make the runoff, finding himself in third place after Tuesday’s vote count. And incumbent Bill Carlson, the mayor’s staunchest critic, easily fended off wealthy businessman Blake Casper in South Tampa’s District 4 race, taking 59 percent of the vote. Meanwhile, Hurtak captured 42% percent of the vote to 39% percent for Cruz, despite the latter’s familial ties to the mayor and her endorsement. In fact, Hurtak, who was appointed to the council last April after the resignation of John Dingfelder, framed her candidacy as a needed check on mayoral power. The mayor also actively campaigned against the four charter amendments, saying they had been rushed by council members and weren’t needed. Two of them proposed to curb her power. Three of the four passed, including one that will require the mayor to win council approval of her highest-level staff appointments. Is the strife between Castor and some City Council members over? That’s still up in the air. The Hurtak-Cruz race will determine if Castor has another foe on City Council, besides Carlson. But other race outcomes could further color relations. In the citywide District 2 race, Robin Lockett, an activist for Florida Rising, has been critical of the mayor, especially over her opposition to rent stabilization measures. In the runoff, she faces sitting council member Guido Maniscalco, who has represented West Tampa in District 6 and has mostly gotten along with Castor. Maniscalco held a wide lead after Tuesday’s vote, if not a majority needed to avoid a runoff. And the third citywide runoff for District 1 has Alan Clendenin, who received more than 40% of the vote, facing Sonja P. Brookins. The defeated incumbent, Citro, was a mayoral ally. Clendenin has said he won’t chose sides in the fight between the mayor and council members. Will that change in the nearly seven weeks before the runoff? And how will Brookins, an under-the-radar candidate who surprised many Tuesday, position herself between now and April 25? Henderson’s win in District 5 was welcome news for the mayor. So was the strong showing of Charlie Miranda, a Castor ally looking to move into the District 6 seat after serving citywide. The runoffs could determine whether Castor has the four votes necessary to advance her agenda without having to compromise with council members. Turnout was low, but not as low as many think Only 32,815 voters, or 13.6% of residents registered, cast ballots, which Castor lamented Tuesday. But the Election Day vote was stronger than in 2015, the last time there was effectively no mayor’s race, and overall turnout ended up slightly surpassing the 2015 totals. With four runoffs on the April 25 ballot, more people may come out to vote. In 2015, a hard-fought runoff between Maniscalco and Jackie Toledo, who later became a state representative, drew a 14.4% turnout, about 1.5% higher than the first round that year. Those votes mattered as Maniscalco won the first of his two terms on the council by about 150 votes.