The big story: The seemingly never ending saga of redrawing Hillsborough County school attendance zones experienced another delay Tuesday, as School Board members declined to vote on any of the proposals before them. Confronted with criticism from several parent and community groups, the board opted to postpone any decision until it can tinker more with the ideas. Several members said they wanted to hear more from the people who would be most affected by the plan, which also calls for closing under-used schools that serve primarily minority neighborhoods. “If we haven’t heard adequately from our Black and brown and Hispanic families, then we cannot have a plan to vote on,” board member Lynn Gray said. Read more here. Hot topics Cell phones: Pasco County school district officials are talking about whether to restrict elementary and middle school student cell phone usage, amid concerns that phones and social media create academic distractions and mental health troubles. • Broward County district officials are taking a look at rules about students who use their phones to record fights, the Sun-Sentinel reports. College diversity: The New College board of trustees voted to dismantle the school’s diversity, equity and inclusion “bureaucracies.” More from WUSF, Herald-Tribune. • Gov. Ron DeSantis has targeted these programs for elimination as a key plank in his plan to overhaul the state’s higher education system. Here are four things to know as the debate continues. Gender lessons: A Republican House member filed legislation to expand the scope of Florida’s restrictions on the instruction of gender identity and sexual orientation through eighth grade, Spectrum 13 reports. The bill also would require public schools to establish policy against using pronouns not corresponding to a person’s sex, which would be termed an “immutable biological trait.” More from the Orlando Sentinel. • It’s not the only bill aiming to place further limits on what schools may teach related to sex, gender and other subjects that have been targeted by Republican lawmakers, WFLA reports. • Legislatures across the nation are considering more severe restrictions on lessons about gender identity and sexual orientation, Education Week reports. School books: Education commissioner Manny Diaz Jr. criticized a Broward County School Board member for sharing a list of books purportedly approved by the state, saying she was promoting misinformation, Florida Standard reports. The list, which included misspellings, circulated among critics of Florida’s new laws on school book approval after it appeared in a report from a Duval County television station. • The Flagler County school district will review an appeal of a school-level decision not to remove the novel “Sold” from its shelves.” The committee makeup does not comply with district policy, Flagler Live reports. Tallahassee action: School board elections and private school vouchers are among some of the most anticipated topics to be discussed by lawmakers in their 2023 session, the News Service of Florida reports. From the police blotter ... A loaded gun and drugs were confiscated from a car parked at a Leon County high school, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Have you seen the story about the man who survived at sea on Maggi packets, garlic powder and a bottle of ketchup? Heinz is looking for him. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.