TAMPA — The Lightning added an eighth defenseman to their roster on Thursday morning, recalling Darren Raddysh from AHL Syracuse. Raddysh has had a stellar season for the Crunch, ranking second among AHL defensemen with 50 points — 13 goals and 37 assists — in 50 games. He saw a brief stint with the Lightning last season, averaging 10:40 in ice time in four games with Tampa Bay. The 27-year-old will be the team’s fourth right-shot defenseman, the first time they have had that many since the team traded right-shot defenseman Cal Foote on Sunday night along with five draft picks for Predators forward Tanner Jeannot. “He had a phenomenal camp for us and I thought at some point he was going to be here, probably didn’t think it was gonna be this late,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said of Raddysh. “But the performance he’s put on in the minors this year, he’s deserved this. You just never know when you get your call. It’s probably been a little late, but spots have opened up and then it’s time to see what some of these guys can do. So he’s deserved this and he’s going to play.” Take away last Saturday’s shutout win in Detroit, when Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 45 shots, and the Lightning have struggled defensively of late against teams fighting for playoff spots, including allowing seven goals in Pittsburgh on Sunday. The Lightning host the Penguins tonight at Amalie Arena. And despite his strong offensive numbers, Raddysh has been a solid defender, playing on the power play and the penalty kill in Syracuse, and he owns a plus-19 goal differential while on the ice. “I just go out and play my game,” Raddysh said. “I’m not doing too flashy. I’m a pretty simple defenseman and just move the puck up to the forwards and play well defensively. I’m just trying to play well defensively and just make sure I’m in the right positions and give myself an opportunity to jump into the rush if I can or just play good defense.” Raddysh was talking his pregame nap before the Crunch’s home game against Cleveland on Wednesday when he was told he was being promoted. He jumped on a flight to Tampa around 8 p.m. and arrived around midnight. Raddysh took extra work during the team’s morning skate and will be available to play against the Penguins. The roster move comes after the Lightning freed up cap space by trading forward Vladislav Namestnikov to San Jose, also acquiring forward Michael Eyssimont. The Sharks took 50 percent of Namestnikov’s $2.5 million cap hit, providing about $1.27 million in cap space. Raddysh carries a $762,500 cap hit. He is in the first season of a two-year deal. “He’s kind of well-rounded,” Cooper said. “The American league, I spent a lot of time there, and it’s young and guys running all over the place and trying to fight their way the NHL. I think the NHL is a little calmer. It’s a little bit more a thinking man’s game and I think Raddy fits that bill. “He’s navigated his way through the American League, which is the second-best league in the world, and done well. So this is kind of the progression, this is how it works. Go down to the American League and find your way and excel, and that’s what he’s done. And now he’s here.” The Lightning aren’t expecting Eyssimont to be available versus Pittsburgh. “Fiesty player, he’s got some great tools,” Cooper said of Eyssimont. “So I think we’ll see where he fits in. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.