The party at the Tampa Yacht Club Tuesday night was as well-heeled as it was subdued. Guests sipped cocktails, nibbled canapes and partook of a carving station with a moonlight view of the bay waters and city skyline as they learned the fate of their candidate. Blake J. Casper, the wealthy business owner making his first run for office, had just lost to the incumbent. Cheeks were kissed, drinks refreshed. Just down the street in a South Tampa strip mall, a livelier bunch munched flatbreads and chicken tenders at local mainstay Pane Rustica. “Four more years!” they shouted at the news that City Council member Bill Carlson, a public relations firm president, had easily fended off Casper’s last-minute challenge. With six City Council races on Tuesday’s ballot, the venues where the candidates chose to celebrate or commiserate said something about them and the city they hoped to represent. Charlie Miranda, West Tampa don and fixture on the local political scene since the 1970s, headed to the Vincent & Tampa Cigar Co., established in 1943, where he plays dominoes and gets straight talk from the locals. Tuesday night even Dick Greco, Tampa’s four-time former mayor, showed up. Among the catered offerings: Italian sausage from the nearby Cacciatore market. “It brings me down to earth,” Miranda, 82, said of the cigar business and its regulars. “I always go back to where I came from.” With just a whisker less than 50 percent of the vote, Miranda is headed into a runoff with lawyer Hoyt Prindle, 38, who spent his Tuesday evening bouncing around to fellow candidates’ events. Mayor Jane Castor had the luxury of cruise control Tuesday with no challenger except an empty line on the ballot where voters could write in an alternate choice. She and her partner, lobbyist Ana Cruz, hit Big Ray’s Fish Camp, a place of grouper cheeks, blackened shrimp and conch fritters, owned by Cruz’s brother Nick. Also in attendance: Cruz’s mother, Janet Cruz, the former state legislator who is running against sitting council member Lynn Hurtak, with the two now headed for a runoff. Hurtak, who has been a technical writer and consultant, was across town in Seminole Heights, the historic neighborhood of old oaks and refurbished bungalows, at the Corner Club, a former hole-in-the-wall dive bar transformed in recent years into a hip place for craft beer, coffee and community events. “It has a really big backyard, a fenced-in back space that’s great,” Hurtak said. Her other choice was busy with Beer Week. Ybor City was a popular site. Candidate Gwen Henderson, a Jefferson High department head, watched with supporters at 7th + Grove, a Southern restaurant and lounge. (Served that night: catfish bites with cornbread, chicken wings and fries.) When the vote totals got to 100%, everyone cheered: Henderson had pulled off a narrow victory over incumbent Orlando Gudes, a retired police officer. Around the corner in Ybor was incumbent Guido Maniscalco at Casa Santo Stefano, the unofficial spot for Tampa’s powerful and connected to break bread, a restaurant decorated with old photographs of some of Tampa’s early Sicilian families. Maniscalco, who ended up in a runoff against Robin Lockett, said his father is from a small Sicilian town. Lockett, an organizer with the progressive social advocacy group Florida Rising, could not be reached regarding her election night whereabouts. Sonja Brookins, a Keiser University professor, was headed to Gasper’s Grotto in Ybor. By night’s end, incumbent Joseph Citro would be ousted when voters put Brookins in a run-off with Alan Clendenin. Clendenin, a retired air traffic controller, spent his evening in the quiet of his South Tampa living room with friends, then visited the parties of others via Uber. Times staff writers Jack Evans, C.T. Bowen and Olivia George contributed to this report.