What elections are about Early voting begins in Tampa municipal elections | Feb. 28 As we approach the upcoming elections in Tampa, I urge every citizen to remember the fundamental importance of our right to vote. This right is what defines our country as a democracy, and without it, we cannot truly claim to be one. Throughout history, our nation has sent brave men and women to other countries to defend and uphold democracy, with some even paying the ultimate price for their service. It is crucial that we educate ourselves on who the true enemies of democracy are and not allow our vote to be taken away by those who claim to uphold our freedom but are actually chipping away at it. Our freedom fighters, who have made the ultimate sacrifice, would have died in vain if we allow our fledgling democracy to be eroded. As we exercise our right to vote, let us honor those who have fought for democracy and ensure that it remains a vital part of our nation’s identity for generations to come. Benjamin Buckley, Tampa A nation of immigrants DeSantis criticizes ‘inadequate’ immigration law he signed, calls for new changes | Feb. 23 Immigrants are here, and our state leaders want to make it harder for them to be self-sufficient. Where is the empathy for those who have traveled the impossible road to make a better life for themselves? Who with American birth would even consider the roads the “alien” has traveled with the hope of cutting grass, washing dishes, cleaning our toilets and being grateful for it? Our nation has more than 32 million small businesses, and many have reliable immigrants working for them. Our government should recognize that “aliens” are most grateful for the opportunities available, are family oriented and have hope for a future for their children. Let’s not forget that we are a nation of immigrants. Fred Willmot, Dunedin What DeSantis stands for DeSantis appoints well-connected Republicans to Reedy Creek board | Feb. 28 Once again, Gov. Ron DeSantis shows his true colors by signing the bill that takes away what Disney has been doing for 50 years — successfully governing the area of, and around, the Disney World park. But he’s not satisfied. Now he’s going after the media by planning to make it easier to sue news outlets. I don’t think he governs for the people of Florida. He governs for the publicity. Bob Rosenberger, Spring Hill