The Tampa Riverwalk has become the sparkling necklace that links our community together in so many important ways. The 2.6-mile path along the Hillsborough River connects our key cultural and entertainment sites, including the Tampa Bay History Center, Amalie Arena, Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park, the Tampa Museum of Art and the Glazer Children’s Museum. It has been a catalyst for thousands of new downtown homes and billions in private investment. And Tampa’s friendly front porch, the gathering spot for friends, families, visitors, was recently named the second-best riverwalk in the country by USA Today. Riverwalk’s success did not happen overnight. It took more than four decades and seven mayors to get to this point. And it is more important than ever to keep building on our success, planning for the future and extending Riverwalk to connect even more neighborhoods, institutions and residents. That is why it is critical for Port Tampa Bay to work with the community to extend Riverwalk behind its infrequently used Terminal 2. The fences need to come down, and the public pathway needs to continue on to The Florida Aquarium, the Channel District and ultimately Ybor City. We cannot have a break in the necklace that took us so long to create. Extending Riverwalk behind the cruise ship terminal should not be so difficult or take so long to figure out. It is a modest challenge compared to the decades of hard work it took to get this far. Former Mayor Bill Poe first proposed the pathway in 1975, and portions of it popped up along the river between the late 1980s and the early 2000s. Former Mayor Pam Iorio pushed for a master plan, and under her leadership Riverwalk was nearly fully connected and complemented by the reimagined Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park and its two new museums. By 2012, my administration obtained a $10.9 million federal grant, and by 2016 we extended Riverwalk to Tampa Heights and completed the final overwater connection under the Kennedy Boulevard bridge. The results have been extraordinary. After decades of turning our backs to the Hillsborough River, Riverwalk brings hundreds of thousands to the waterfront every year, and it is used virtually around the clock every day. It has attracted new residents and new investment along its route, and there is no doubt it has helped us secure major conventions and events such as the 2017 college football national championship and the NCAA Women’s Final Four, which returns to Tampa in 2025. With the eventual completion of the Riverwalk on the west side of the river, iconic Tampa locations like the University of Tampa and Julian B. Lane Park, become easily accessible and open up neighborhoods like West River, historic West Tampa and the Rome Yard development to new opportunities for Tampa families. Vibrant cities keep building on their successes, and that’s what we have to do with Riverwalk. It makes all the sense in the world to extend the path behind the cruise terminal and on to The Florida Aquarium, the Channel District and Ybor City. The port and its board should be a good community partner and help make this happen in a timely fashion without stalling with endless reports and committee meetings. Historically, Terminal 2 has been used for roughly 30 days a year. Even when it was used for about 70 days in the last year because of work on another terminal, it was not in use about eight out of 10 days. For an infrequently used facility to block the extension of a public asset that is used every day defies logic and is not in the best interest of our residents. Much of the infrastructure needed to extend Riverwalk behind the cruise terminal already is there. It’s possible that the Channel District Community Redevelopment Area could help cover the cost of improvements, and security issues can be addressed. If nothing else, a Riverwalk extension behind Terminal 2 could be temporarily closed on days when a cruise ship is there. Extending Riverwalk has broad community support, and Port Tampa Bay should serve as a collaborative partner in this effort — not as a stubborn obstructionist. We have worked too hard for too long to create this jewel that unites our city to be blocked by turf wars and fences. Bob Buckhorn served as mayor of Tampa from 2011 to 2019.