I guess I’m a ‘radical,’ then Why is diversity the hot issue in Florida higher education? 4 things to know. | Feb. 28 Gov. Ron DeSantis’ attempts to dismantle diversity, equity and inclusion programs at state colleges and universities in Florida is deplorable. Florida’s proposed HB 99 has caused several national reputable organizations such as the American Association of University Presidents, American Federation of Teachers and National Coalition Against Censorship to issue public statements in opposition to unconstitutional provisions hostile to freedom of expression and academic freedom. The NAACP has issued a statement regarding DeSantis’ decision to reject the College Board’s African American studies Advanced Placement course as an “attempt to whitewash history and ignore the experiences and contributions of Black people in America.” Locally, a recent proposal has been put forth by Hillsborough County Commissioner Michael Owen for the 30-branch library system to drop its affiliation with the well-respected national American Library Association because the association “has clearly gone radical.” If an organization that stands “opposed to censorship and any effort to coerce belief, suppress opinion, or punish those whose expression does not conform to what is deemed to be orthodox in history, politics or belief” is deemed radical then count me among the radicals who plead for rationality and freedom in Florida. Mary Reddick, St. Petersburg The right call Here’s why “Dilbert” is gone from the Times | March 1 Congratulations for standing up for American values. Your decision to discontinue Scott Adams’ “Dilbert” after the quoted remarks is exactly the right decision. There is no place in the United States for people who express such racist remarks. Hal Hultman, Seminole Here’s why I’m gone from the Times Here’s why “Dilbert” is gone from the Times | March 1 This week, the Tampa Bay Times announced that it no longer will carry the comic strip “Dilbert.” I don’t know if its creator, Scott Adams, is a racist or not. I do know that in our constitutional democracy free speech and thought are protected even when the view expressed is unpopular or even hateful. The Times’ “woke” editors eliminate a popular cartoon, which has nothing to do with racism, because it deems the author a racist. This is yet another example of our cancel culture and political correctness run amok. Gov. Ron DeSantis said, “Florida is where woke goes to die.” Apparently, this message was lost on the Times, where it’s apparently OK to espouse liberal views without counterbalanced reporting. It’s OK to print Garry Trudeau’s “Doonesbury” in the comics section, despite Trudeau attacking conservatives. So it must be OK to censor a cartoonist for his personal comments totally unrelated to his work product. I respectfully disagree. Wokeness and political correctness have gone too far in America. I’m canceling my subscription to the Times. I feel it is the only way I have to prevent the Times from profiting from banning Dilbert and Scott Adams. Vaughn Duff, Tarpon Springs Toward a more peaceful world Here’s why “Dilbert” is gone from the Times | March 1 I would like to thank Times Editor Mark Katches for dropping “Dilbert” from the comics of the Tampa Bay Times. There is no room in our state or our country for demeaning anyone or any group. It’s OK to have different opinions. But as a civilized people, we should work within those differences and celebrate those differences. Think what a peaceful world this would be. Mary Sheppard, Riverview The risk is here and now Another reminder of Florida’s massive hurricane risk | Editorial, March 1 Hurricane Ian recently swept through parts of South and Central Florida, destroying homes and putting lives at risk. If asked, everyone would agree that it is not in the best interest of Floridians to ignore preparing for these storms. While we may make emergency preparations when a storm looms, Florida’s government, as well as the federal government, has done almost nothing to stop what is becoming the cause of more extreme and frequent storms, as well as hotter temperatures: climate change. Climate change is the reason storm surge in Florida could be up to 70% higher by 2100, according to a report by Resources for the Future. The same report adds that by the 2070s, $3.5 billion in assets will be at risk due to coastal flooding in Miami. Violent hurricanes will likely become more common due to global warming. The effects of climate change are deadly and will cost much more in dollars and lives than being prepared and fighting this issue now. Vivienne Lieberman, Sarasota