Despite a last-minute challenge from a wealthy Tampa business owner with some powerful local support, Bill Carlson was the voters’ choice to continue representing South Tampa on the City Council. Carlson handily beat back first-time candidate Blake Casper, former owner of dozens of McDonald’s restaurants who ran on a law-and-order platform, with all precincts counted Tuesday night. Theirs was was a closely watched race with the potential to reshape the City Council. Carlson arrived at his watch party Tuesday evening at Pane Rustica restaurant in South Tampa to an enthusiastic crowd. “It’s a great win for the people of Tampa. It shows that democracy works,” he said. “And people want a representative form of government.” Carlson, 55, president of the Tucker/Hall public relations firm, has pushed back on Mayor Jane Castor on issues including police oversight and the wastewater reuse project called PURE. He has also accused the administration of political retaliation. Castor endorsed Casper late in the race. “Despite all the negative mailers, they failed, “Carlson said. “It’s time to end the dirty politics and work on real solutions for our community. "  Casper, 49, said he lost faith in Carlson — a friend — when protests over the murder of George Floyd turned violent in Tampa. Just down the street, his supporters gathered at the Tampa Yacht Club overlooking the bay waters. “I feel good,“ Casper told the Tampa Bay Times. “I feel like we ran a great race. We’ve never done this before. It brought the issue of law and order to the forum. Bill has committed to support the police and I’m really glad.” Asked if he planned to run for office again, Casper said “I think maybe I scratched the itch. I think that might be it for me.“ Casper owns the high-end restaurant and retail venue Oxford Exchange. The family business owned dozens of McDonald’s, including one inside Tampa General Hospital, but announced plans to sell them last year. Both candidates had strong supporters. In addition to Castor, Casper’s included former Mayor Bob Buckhorn, with whom Carlson has had an acrimonious relationship.