Sustainability means different things to different people. At the Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority, yes, we are focused on environmental sustainability. But we also are concentrating on social and economic sustainability. It’s a triple bottom line with benchmarks and measurable goals. And it’s all aimed at continuing to build a robust transit system that meets the needs of all of our communities in a way that is financially and socially responsible. In 2022, PSTA made significant progress in each of these areas that are critical to carrying out our mission: * Environmental sustainability. Nearly half of PSTA’s buses already are hybrid buses or all-electric buses, which are battery powered and produce no emissions. In 2022, we avoided 650,000 metric tons in greenhouse gas emissions. That is the equivalent of taking 140,000 cars off the road for a year, and that positive impact will grow significantly in the next few years. PSTA signed a contract last year to add 60 all-electric buses to our fleet over the next five years, using $18 million received from the state as part of a government settlement with Volkswagen over claims the company violated the Clean Air Act. We expect to eliminate all diesel buses from our fleet within the decade. * Social sustainability. Within PSTA, we distributed two dozen diversity, equity and inclusion goals throughout the agency that are aimed at recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce to serve our diverse community. We are an industry leader in helping create racial equity measures and strategies embraced by 84 transit organizations nationwide. Diversity drives PSTA, and we work hard to connect all people to places, to opportunities and to chances. A robust transit system should be accessible — affordable to everyone. That includes employees who need transportation to late-night jobs or hotels on the beaches, people with disabilities who can’t drive — and tourists and residents who want to reach their destination without driving themselves. * Financial sustainability. Better bus service means more riders and more economic opportunities for our residents and our communities. SunRunner, the bus rapid transit route between downtown St. Petersburg and St. Pete Beach, debuted last year to positive reviews and significant ridership that is only expected to rise. The project also came in more than $5 million under budget, which enables us to pursue enhancements such as adding a SunRunner stop near the St. Pete Pier to attract even more riders. Working with the city of St. Petersburg, we also took steps to ensure development along the SunRunner route includes housing that is affordable. In Clearwater, we also hit significant milestones in our yearslong effort to build a modern transit center downtown. PSTA secured a $20 million federal grant and another $8 million from Pinellas County toward construction of the new center, and Clearwater approved a necessary land swap for our outdated transit center in exchange for vacant land for the new center. While we resumed collecting fares after the pandemic, and we have healthy reserves, we could accomplish so much more with more funding. The federal money for SunRunner and the Clearwater transit center enable us to significantly improve our service, but it will take more revenue to build the 21st century transit system Pinellas County deserves. Sustainability is so much more than a slogan at PSTA. Our sustainability goals are reflected in everything we do to deliver transit service that is modern, reliable and efficient. We made significant strides in 2022, and we will reach even higher in the coming years. Brad Miller is chief executive officer of the Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority.