TAMPA — Incumbent Joseph Citro, the current City Council chairperson, faces a slate of challengers to retain his citywide seat. Among them is Alan Clendenin, who lost to Citro in the first round of the 2019 election. Here’s a breakdown of the district, the candidates, key issues, campaign finances and what’s at stake for voters in the March 7 election. District Overview All Tampa voters will get a chance to weigh in. Across the city there are 240,270 registered voters of which 103,122 are Democrats — a 40,000 voter lead over Republicans. Non-party affiliated voters make up a nearly 70,000 voter slice of the electorate. Voters aged 66 and over are the largest voting segment at 18%. Candidates Sonja P Brookins, 60, a professor of anatomy, physiology and microbiology at Keiser University, and a former elected supervisor at the Hillsborough Soil and Water Conservation District, is making her first run for city council. She lives in Seminole Heights. Citro, 64, is finishing his first term in office. He is a hair salon owner who lives in South Tampa. Clendenin, 63, is a retired air traffic controller and Democratic Party Southern Caucus chairperson and sits on the executive board of the Democratic National Committee. He lives in South Tampa. Chase Harrison, 62, is a retired U.S. Air Force intelligence analyst and retired Tampa Police officer. He is making his first run for the City Council. Issues: Brookins told a South Tampa political forum recently that her priorities are affordable housing that helps the middle class and equity in city government. Citro has said improving transportation and creating more affordable housing are his top priorities. He sees the two issues as related, saying better transportation options will help more people afford housing. Clendenin told the Tampa Bay Times editorial board recently that his highest priority is restoring accountability, trust and transparency at City Hall, saying the dysfunctional relationship between Mayor Jane Castor and the council hurts the city. Harrison has said improving existing roads is his top priority. He is opposed to removing car lanes for bicycle lanes. Finances: According to the latest campaign finance reports, here’s how the candidates are faring in the money game. Brookins: Contributions: $3,725 Expenditures: None Citro: Contributions: $36,100 Expenditures: $7,631 Clendenin: Contributions: $74,007 Expenditures: $36,387 Harrison: Contributions: $8,440 Expenditures: $6,825 Stakes: The rematch between Citro and Clendenin has netted most of the attention in this race so far. Citro has been a Castor ally. Clendenin says he will be more independent. How to vote: Early voting runs through Sunday, you can find locations and hours here. Tuesday is Election Day. Voting hours are 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. You can find your precinct here.