The big story: Nearly half of Florida’s public high schools start classes daily before 7:30 a.m. That goes against what research about teens’ sleep needs recommends. State lawmakers expect if students get a better night’s sleep, they’ll do better academically. So they’ve set in motion a bill to require later start times for middle and high schools, starting in 2026 to give everyone time to prepare. The proposal has generated concerns among some officials, who noted that such a change could create hardships for working families whose job schedules do not conform to the plan. But it mostly won praise as the bill started its move through the Legislature. Read more here. Also Thursday, the House Choice and Innovation subcommittee advanced a bill to limit access to social media in schools, Florida Politics reports. The bill additionally would give teachers more authority to tell students they must put their phones away during class. The subcommittee further OK’d a measure that would permit charter school students to play sports at private schools, Florida Politics reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The House Education Quality subcommittee will take up HB 1 on school vouchers and HB 1069 on sex education when it meets at 9 a.m. Hot topics Attendance zones: The Hillsborough County School Board made additional demands of the district administration as it seeks a majority to support a proposal that includes closing schools and redrawing school boundaries. • Palm Beach County school district officials are exploring options for placing a new high school in the Riviera Beach area, the Palm Beach Post reports. Board politics: A Sarasota County resident once associated with Moms for Liberty used her public comment time at a board meeting to hurl anti-gay attacks at member Tom Edwards, who is gay, the Herald-Tribune reports. Chairperson Bridget Ziegler later apologized. • A newly elected Flagler County School Board member who has led an effort to remove the district’s superintendent said she had submitted her resignation to the Governor’s Office, then backtracked and refused to comment, Flagler Live reports. Book challenges: The Indian River County school district has faced dozens of book challenges, mostly at the high school level. Students and community members said they do not support removing titles from the libraries, WPTV reports. • The Duval County schools supervisor of instructional materials is resigning amid criticism of her anti-LGBTQ comments made while reviewing books for the district, Jacksonville Today reports. COVID relief funds: Some Gadsden County parents and teachers questioned whether their district and School Board have appropriately used federal pandemic relief money, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. They said the district wasn’t giving schools proper support even as the grant goes unspent. New College: Interim president Richard Corcoran sent a message to faculty and students saying he does not intend to fire tenured professors or undo the school’s academic system, the Herald-Tribune reports. Survey says ... A University of North Florida survey of Floridians shows about 53% support for expanding school vouchers, 26% support for a shift to partisan school board elections and 35% support for the Legislature’s proposed overhaul of higher education, Florida Politics reports. From the police blotter ... USF students staged a rally to urge the university to drop charges against four people who were arrested during a campus protest earlier in the week. • A Polk County school bus attendant was arrested on accusations of striking a student with a belt, WKMG reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Kick off your Friday with this lovely Take 6 version of Stevie Wonder’s “Overjoyed.” • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.