ST. PETERSBURG — The bottom line is that Pete Fairbanks is healthy. The Rays right-hander made his spring training debut Thursday and said the finger numbness that forced him out of the season-ending playoff game in Cleveland in October has not been an issue. His command and adjusting to the pitch clock will come as the spring goes on. “I feel healthy,” Fairbanks said after an interesting inning of work. “It’s right on trend with my first high-effort bullpen, my first live (batting practice), and my first game — the command not being as good as it has been. “But you know, health-wise and stuff-wise I feel good.” Fairbanks pitched a scoreless fourth in the Rays’ 6-1 win over the Blue Jays at Tropicana Field. He gave up a single to Bo Bichette, who he picked off after the Toronto shortstop stole second base. “I don’t pick off very much, or at all, unless they tell me to pick it off,” Fairbanks said. “So that’ll be a little bit of an adjustment this year obviously with, I think, teams trying to be more aggressive just as being the guy who works a little bit more deliberately towards the plate.” Fairbanks hit Whit Merrifield with a pitch after a mix-up on the pitch clock reset with Bichette on base. Lefty Colin Poche also made his spring debut, striking out three and giving up two hits. “I thought their stuff looked really good,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “Pete mixed in a couple change-ups. I think that’s gonna be a little bit more part of his game this year. But both of their stuff was pretty crisp.” New territory Greg Jones said he would be lying if he said he was not nervous. The Rays drafted him in the first round in 2019 as a shortstop, but Thursday he played centerfield for the first time. He made a diving grab on his first play off what he admitted was a bad read but grew more confident after that. “He’s playing centerfield in the most difficult ballpark there probably is,” Cash said, “so I’m impressed, proud of him that he went out there.” Obviously, Jones would be blocked by Wander Franco and his long-term contract at shortstop, so the Rays see moving Jones to center as a way to possibly get him to the big leagues eventually. A new spring training Bucs running back Rachaad White made an appearance before the game to take a round of batting practice with the Rays. He worked in the cage and hit on the field. “It was fun, and a great opportunity to see how other professional athletes work,” White said. Game details: Rays 6, Blue Jays 1 Josh Lowe hit his second home run of the spring to lead off the bottom of the first. “Josh is a guy certainly that we want him to feel good about himself, and he should right now,” Cash said. Lowe is hitting .286. ... Brandon Lowe hit his first homer. “We missed Brandon a lot,” Cash said. “So it is good to see him when he’s healthy swinging the bat well. ... Brandon, he does some things that we don’t really have other guys that can do, certainly from the left side. So if we can keep them healthy it should be nice for us come opening day.” Miscellany Yandy Diaz, who has been out with a hip flexor strain, is expected to be in the lineup, playing first base, when the Braves visit the Trop on Friday. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.