RALEIGH, N.C. — A lot has gone wrong for the Lightning over the past three weeks. On the ice, they’ve been a championship-caliber team in reputation only. Now, after an ugly 6-0 loss to the Hurricanes on Sunday sent them to their fifth straight loss — their longest losing streak in nine years — they admit that they’re in their own heads. When a group has accomplished what this one has — three straight runs to the Stanley Cup final, hoisting the trophy twice — it’s used to being a world-beater. But as lopsided losses have piled up, this Lightning team has started to question itself. Outscored by a combined 11-3 during back-to-back road losses over the weekend — and having their top three offensive stars benched for the final period Saturday in Buffalo — the Lightning hope they have reached rock bottom but realize there’s no such thing as a quick fix in the NHL. “I think you’re delusional in general to think that something like that is just going to click,” captain Steven Stamkos said. “It’s got to be a team effort. It’s got to be our collective group.” Stamkos, benched Saturday along with Brayden Point and Nikita Kucherov, said the team isn’t “just going to flip the switch and we’re going to go on a 10-game winning streak.” “We’ve been in the skid for a while now,” he said. Tampa Bay (37-21-5) has lost six of its past seven games and eight of 10. “We’ve got to work ourselves out of our heads as players and as coaches,” Stamkos said. “We’ve got to work collectively as a group to play better and to get results. That’s what this league is about. It’s about wins and trying to put yourself in the best position come playoff time. So that’s what we’re looking for.” Against a Hurricanes team that offers few scoring opportunities, Tampa Bay was silenced in the offensive zone. Worse for the Lightning, during a second period in which they failed to muster a single shot on goal, they lost top defenseman Victor Hedman, who slid awkwardly into the boards after a hit early in the period and stayed nearly motionless on the ice for several minutes except for reaching to hold his lower back. He returned for one 11-second shift later in the second but went back to the locker room and stayed there. Coach Jon Cooper said Hedman would be re-evaluated Monday in Tampa. The Lightning had to play nearly two periods with five defensemen. The Lightning allowed four power-play goals, the most they’ve yielded all season. Hurricanes left wing Teuvo Teravainen had a hat trick, with two of his goals coming with the man advantage. Cooper said he felt better about his team’s effort — its lack of defensive want-to led to Saturday’s benching of Stamkos, Point and Kucherov — but still didn’t get the kind of result his team is used to. After two periods, Tampa Bay trailed by as many goals, four, as it had shots on goal. “You look at it as, is your team competing, which we were,” Cooper said. “I have a ton of faith in this group. So we’ll be all right. “Confidence is a funny thing, right? You’d like to just bottle it up, put it in an envelope and hand it to everybody and say, ‘Check your mail.’ But guys, they’ve got routines and they’re used to making plays. And when it’s off a bit, guys are questioning themselves. “We’re just not executing right now, so it’s slowing our game down, and as coaches we’ve got to instill some confidence in these guys. And we’ll be OK. We’ve got a veteran group.” The Lightning hadn’t lost five straight games since March 2-10, 2014. They’ve allowed five or more goals in three straight games and four or more in six of their last seven. “When you lose five in a row, obviously you lose some confidence,” said defenseman Mikhail Sergachev. “You go out there and it seems not to work, anything you do. It’s just one of those stretches. But I know this group. … And I know consistency will come in a good way. Goals will come, and good defensive play will come. “It’s just not a good stretch. But I believe in this group, and everybody in this room does, too.” After dropping below .500 on the road (15-16-1), the Lightning hope to regain their footing back at Amalie Arena for the next four games. “It’s snowballed a little bit, and that’s what good teams try not to let happen throughout the course of the season,” Stamkos said. “So we’ll look to get home and reset here, because it can go the other way just as quick.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.