TAMPA — It’s impossible to miss the lush green plant wall and bright purple flowers hugging the white veranda and front porch of the house on Nebraska Avenue. Inside, bubblegum pink chairs sit snug along a white bar, which faces a colorful mural featuring tropical plants and bright fuchsia flowers. There’s the champagne room, which glows with glittering sparkle lights. And then there’s the “gold room,” outfitted with metallic gold 3D tiling and sultry pink lighting. One thing is for sure: Coasis — a new restaurant and salon now open in Seminole Heights — is ready for the ‘gram. The new spot, which opened recently at 7701 N Nebraska Ave., is a joint venture from co-owners chef Melissa “Melly” Gardner and Brandi Gergle. Coasis takes over the building formerly home to the London Heights British Pub and The Ox. The new space is a hybrid approach from Gardner and Gergle. Gardner is helming the kitchen, alongside executive chef Kendall Ivy, while Gergle, a local beauty professional who owns B. Blaze Hair Boutique, plans to open a salon upstairs. The duo, who are also a couple, had talked about owning a business together for some time. Gardner is known for her popular food truck Three Generations, which she’s run for several years in St. Petersburg, including a short stint at the 22 South Food Hall inside the Historic Manhattan Casino. Though the pair live in St. Petersburg, they were eventually swayed by the Seminole Heights neighborhood and its proximity to other bars and restaurants. Gergle purchased the building and the pair have been renovating the space for the last year, finally opening their doors on Feb. 25. Fans of Gardner’s food truck menu will be happy to see a lot of repeat performances, especially on the brunch menu, which features more upscale spins on some of her most popular dishes, including a French toast made here with pound cake, bruleed bananas and salted caramel whipped cream, and the truffle chimichurri lamb chops served with a citrus salsa. For dinner, starters include char-grilled oysters, served with a Cajun garlic Parmesan sauce and jerk butter; shrimp ceviche with a black pepper mango puree and plantain chips; and a grilled Caesar salad. Larger plates include a bone-in cowboy ribeye or tenderloin filet, each served with a choice of “enhancements,” including black garlic blue cheese truffle butter and a Cajun crawfish sauce. There’s also a marinated grilled whole snapper, served with fried okra and a tomato brown stew and sides like bruleed sweet mashed potatoes, gouda and cheddar mac and cheese, asparagus with a bacon chili oil and garlic parmesan truffle fries. For dessert, the short menu includes a warm brownie, served with salted caramel, pecans, chocolate chips, vanilla ice cream and a vanilla creme brulee. Gergle said they envision the space to include a lively bar scene in addition to the restaruant, which boasts a full bar and cocktail program, helmed by bar manager Lauren Reese. The cocktail menu features tropical-leaning drinks like the Holy Smokin Coconuts, made with mezcal, pineapple, lime, coconut and mint and the Espress ya-self — a play on the espresso martini made with tequila (instead of vodka) and espresso liquor, espresso and a salted vanilla syrup. The restaurant is currently open for dinner 5:30 to 10 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, and for brunch 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.