The big story: Backers called the bill the “parental rights in education” act. Detractors called it “don’t say gay.” Gov. Ron DeSantis called it a “false narrative” when facing accusations that the measure was targeting LGBTQ issues. Since he signed it, many schools are using the law to remove materials about LGBTQ people and issues. Read more from Popular Information. The law, which is being replicated in other states, has received support from conservatives across the nation as it’s being fought in court, the Corsicana (Texas) Daily Sun reports. In other news related to gender matters in schools, a federal case involving Florida transgender students’ restroom options could be headed to the U.S. Supreme Court, WOKV reports. Hot topics Teacher shortages: Flagler County schools are looking outside the United States to find educators who can fill open positions, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. • Rollins College has partnered with the Orange County school district to train classroom aides to become teachers, WMFE reports. • A program designed to help military veterans become Florida teachers has placed 10 people into schools so far, WTSP reports. Student discipline: Brevard County schools began implementing a zero tolerance policy, including strict enforcement of cell phone use in classrooms, as students returned from winter break, WKMG reports. Vaccine guidance: A University of Florida official said the school has no standing to investigate critiques of surgeon general Joseph Ladapo, who also is a university faculty member, regarding his rules on COVID-19 vaccinations, the News Service of Florida reports. Security: The chief of Miami-Dade County school police could soon leave to head the city of Doral police department, the Miami Herald reports. Summer programs: The Alachua County school district has made changes to address finance and management concerns at a summer camp it operates, WUFT reports. Enrollment growth: A Jackson County school that once appeared headed for closure is gaining students for the first time in years, WMBB reports. From the court docket ... A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit in which leaders of a Manatee County charter school alleged their school was wrongfully terminated, the Herald-Tribune reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... The official Beatles YouTube channel has been releasing new animations for the songs from Revolver. Here’s the one recently posted for “Taxman.” • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.