TAMPA — It’s been more than three years since dozens of benches disappeared from a downtown Tampa park called Lykes Gaslight Square. For an urban core that does not boast an overabundance of tree-canopied green space, Gaslight Square is a respite: a classic city park crisscrossed by oak-lined sidewalks, tucked amid high rises and close to police headquarters and city hall, open to anyone for strolling and sitting. It was a place where homeless people often rested on benches or in the grass, sharing space with workers on lunch breaks — a snapshot of a downtown on the rise and the vulnerable population within it. In 2017, Gaslight Square was where seven advocates were arrested for feeding homeless people without a permit — serving a hot meal that included quinoa with mushrooms scooped onto paper plates. But those charges were dropped by State Attorney Andrew Warren, who said prosecuting people for charity was not a good use of resources. Then, in 2019, the park’s benches disappeared, replaced by large fiberglass planters. City officials — under the previous administration of then-mayor Bob Buckhorn — said the 43 benches were being refurbished, some for the first time in 30 years, with no date given for their return. “They’ve taken (the benches) away from the regular public, too,” Christina Long, a homeless woman who was on a waiting list for housing, told the Tampa Bay Times then. “It’s sad not to have anywhere to sit.” Jany Coyle with Tampa Food Not Bombs recently said that when the benches went way, so did a sense of community when they served food to homeless people and those on the cusp. “It felt like a family meal,” she said. “We would just sit together, even if it was in the grass.” City officials later said the benches were too damaged to be repaired. They were not replaced. Advocates suspected the intent was to keep homeless people out just as the city was about to host the NCAA Women’s Final Four at nearby Amalie Arena. They predicted benches would not be back. So far, they’re right. The city’s current director of parks and recreation, Sherisha Hills, said she wasn’t in that top position when the benches were removed. She called Gaslight Square a downtown centerpiece with great tree canopy, different from its big-park counterparts, with their playgrounds and splash areas. This is a quieter, shaded space to walk or be outside, she said. Asked if she thought Gaslight Square needed benches back, she said she didn’t know. “It’s a unique park, and it could go different ways,” she said. “I would hate to say yes, it needs it, or no, it doesn’t need it.” Hills said she didn’t know a lot about the 2019 bench controversy, but “I know where we are now and we’re getting the feedback from the community.” The Tampa Downtown Partnership, a nonprofit that manages the downtown district through an agreement with the city, recently surveyed workers and residents about what they would like to see downtown. Partnership spokesperson Ashly Anderson said in a prior survey, people did want seating in the park — “any kind of seating components,” she said. Since the benches left, some things have happened at Gaslight Square. The park hosted a pop-up quick-service cafe that operated under a temporary permit. Next came Sweet Mama’s Ice Cream, also now gone from the park. “It was a temporary public space activation to show and test out different ways to operate the space,” Anderson said. “We see it as a really important kind of center square for downtown.” “So if you have money and you can buy ice cream, then you can sit here,” said Coyle. “But if you don’t have money, you can keep going.” These days the partnership sets up folding bistro tables and chairs for people to use in part of the square during the day. “The best practice is a mix of urban seating types,” said Anderson, whose background is in urban design. “I think a mix of fixed and movable furnishings are definitely best for that park.” But she also noted the benches “were definitely in disrepair” and could be used as “a sleeping space.” She said the plan is to keep collaborating with the city in enhancing the park. “It’s going to continue to be a priority park for us,” she said. “It’s going to continue to evolve as our downtown evolves.” In the years since the benches were removed, the homeless population has noticeably dropped at Gaslight Square — though homeless people are still very much a part of the downtown population. Meanwhile, downtown continues to develop, with sleek residential towers rising on Water Street and the Riverwalk filled with pedestrians and partiers. “Tampa is flourishing, but we can’t ignore the plight of our neediest residents, including those without a roof over their heads,” Tampa Mayor Jane Castor told the Tampa Bay Times via text message. “We’re working hard to balance the interests of neighborhoods and businesses with compassion for those needing help.” “I think it’s great to see progress,” said Coyle. “But not at the expense of anyone who doesn’t have money being pushed out.”