Recent weeks have seen travelers stranded, luggage lost and festive spirits dampened at Tampa International and airports nationwide as passengers faced a torrent of delays and cancellations. First, Southwest Airlines’ operational meltdown led the carrier to cancel more than 15,000 flights late last month, and the hashtag #SouthwestStoleChristmas began trending on Twitter. Next, an air traffic computer issue in Miami compounded flight delays and cancellations to and from Florida. On Wednesday, the Federal Aviation Administration implemented a delay program for flights to the state due to weather. “The past two holiday seasons have been among our busiest, but these past two weeks were especially challenging for most airports due to harsh winter weather conditions across the country and Southwest’s operational challenges,” John Tiliacos, Tampa International’s executive vice president of operations, said in a statement. Between Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve, Tampa International saw 723 canceled flights, more than 18% of all operations. Almost a third of all flights were delayed, according to data provided by airport spokesperson Emily Nipps. Dec. 26 brought the highest number of cancellations — 135 flights. Operations returned to relative normalcy by Dec. 30 and remained stable throughout New Year’s Day, according to airport data. But a problem with a critical air traffic control system caused disruptions at major airports across the state Monday. Once again, the display boards glowed in red, flight after flight was delayed and rows of luggage were stacked like dominoes, snaking through the terminal. (The computer issue has been resolved, according to the FAA.) The administration then implemented a delay program for flights to the Sunshine State on Wednesday as a cold front approaching from the north sent a line of showers and storms in the Tampa Bay area’s direction. There were 224 flight delays and 74 cancellations Wednesday at Tampa International, according to the flight-tracking website FlightAware. The program was over as of Thursday morning, with the airport expecting to see improved operations, Nipps said. “There is no doubt airlines will learn from the painful two weeks we’ve just come out of and make necessary improvements to ensure travelers get wherever they want to go, safely and on time,” Tiliacos said. “As always, travelers should always keep an eye on weather systems and other nationwide impacts to the air travel system as they get closer to their travel dates, and work directly with their airlines to reschedule if necessary.” Southwest, with its antiquated crew-scheduling system, was unable to swiftly recover from storm-related delays that began late last month when snow, ice and high winds raked portions of the country, the Tampa Bay Times previously reported. The Dallas-based airline has returned to normal operations as legal action and a potential congressional investigation loom. U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg told ABC’s “Good Morning America” last week that his agency “will mount an extraordinary effort” to ensure Southwest issues refunds and that it determined the airline’s woes were not related to winter weather, a factor that gives passengers more favorable treatment. Buttigieg noted on Twitter that in 2022, the Department of Transportation “set a new record for fines penalizing refund violations.” In November, the department announced $7.25 million in fines, along with more than $600 million in refunds, for six airlines for violating rules intended to protect passengers facing cancellations. But five of those airlines were foreign, and Southwest was not among the offenders. The Transportation Department released a new online dashboard last September that gives travelers a quick, transparent view of what 10 U.S. airlines offer passengers when flights are delayed or canceled for reasons within the airline’s control. Buttigieg says the dashboard is a step in helping travelers easily understand their rights, compare airline practices and make informed decisions. The website reveals, for example, that JetBlue and Hawaiian Airlines will, in some circumstances, rebook passengers on another airline when a flight is canceled, but that Southwest and Spirit will not. Although easy-to-read tables and links to customer service policies can help customers learn what they’re owed, they don’t mean much for the people who are stuck in the airport for hours. The question for many travelers is whether they can trust airlines to get them where they want to go on time. Tiliacos said the impacts travelers experienced this holiday season “should not be used as a bellwether for what travelers should expect in the future.” He noted the airport had an almost 90% on-time performance last Thanksgiving, when fewer than 1% of flights were canceled.