Chaz Hicks had a stressful December. Money ran low as the holidays approached, and he was selling some of his possessions to pay the bills and fill his gas tank. The overdraft fees piled up. And weeks after he noticed he’d been shorted on his paycheck, he said he was still waiting for the rest of the money he was owed by his employer, Hillsborough County. ”Thank god for my family,” he said. “They always make sure we take care of the kids. And if it wasn’t for them, I don’t feel their Christmas would’ve been what they wanted it to be.” Hicks said he finally received back pay for the missing money more than a month after it was owed. That came through a regular paycheck, not through one of the hardship checks the county has said it’s using to address the problems tied to its new payroll system.  The payroll problems were first reported by Creative Loafing Tampa Bay. Hicks, who works in the traffic signal division of the county’s Public Works Department, and who is a steward for the county employees’ union, said he continues to hear of pervasive problems. “Yes, the problem’s occurring, but it’s just not being fixed in a timely manner,” he said. The county has acknowledged the pay discrepancies and, in a statement last week, said it’s covering the missing money as quickly as possible. At the center of all this is Oracle Payroll, the new system the county switched to in the fall. The county said Wednesday that it had issued a total of 85 hardship checks for the three pay dates in December. Typically, under its former payroll system, the county issued 15 such checks for each two-week pay period. The county said it issues an estimated 5,923 paychecks each period. Human error is a big part of the problem, according to a Nov. 29 email from Human Resources Director Ivey Martin to county commissioners. “It has been identified that a large percentage of the issues are tied to incorrect timesheets due to the learning curve in properly submitting and approving (paid time off) and timesheets. Additional training and one-on-one sessions are continuing to be offered to correct avoidable mistakes,” Ivey said. Hicks said he’s also been told it’s a matter of human error in the input of hours on timecards, perhaps because of marked differences in how the new and old payroll systems note things like overtime. When employees notice an error, Hicks said, they’ve been directed to submit their timecards anyway and then report the problem — otherwise they may not get paid at all. ”Send up a prayer,” he said, describing the whole process. Commissioner Pat Kemp said changing the payroll system was part of a large technology upgrade that was long overdue. “It’s been a huge, heavy lift to move this into operation,” said Kemp. “It’s been very difficult and it’s very complex.” County Administrator Bonnie Wise, staff from the Hillsborough County Clerk of the Circuit Court and Comptroller, Oracle consultants and members of the county’s Enterprise Solutions & Quality Assurance Department are working to resolve the issue, said Kemp and Martin. Hicks said it seems to particularly affect those like him in on-call positions, which lend themselves to overtime and irregular hours. He should have had 26 hours of overtime in the pay issued Dec. 23, he said, but the payroll adjustment didn’t show up. After looking at the paystub he received Friday, Hicks said he still couldn’t decipher if all of his past pay had been accounted for. The retroactive pay he received didn’t indicate the dates it had been earned, and some of the wages from the past two weeks were coded incorrectly, including overtime pay coded as regular earnings, he said. “There’s still money missing from my check,” he said.