After more than 65,000 entries and 37,000 votes from around the world, the 21-foot flamingo sculpture at Tampa International Airport finally has a name: Phoebe. The winning submission for the pink behemoth came from 63-year-old retired educator Bryan M., the airport announced late Thursday morning. Tampa International Airport launched the contest to name the bird, a beloved mascot for travelers passing through the main terminal, in November and revealed the three finalist names — Cora, Finn and Phoebe — on Dec. 30 for a public vote. The names were originally set to be revealed on Dec. 16, but the process was delayed as the judges needed more time to narrow down the “high volume of entries.” Phoebe won 43% of the votes, almost 2,000 more votes than runner-up Cora. Finn trailed in third place, with about 18% of people selecting it as their favorite. Beyond bragging rights, Bryan M. has won four nonstop, roundtrip tickets for himself and three companions on Silver Airways and a “VIP Experience package to Busch Gardens.” In his submission, he listed his reasoning in choosing the name: “A play on Phoenicopterus — the flamingo’s scientific name. ‘Phoebe’ is also a playful alliterative to flamingo and means brilliantly inquisitive.” (In a release last week about the finalists, the airport named the winning entrant as “James M,” but he prefers to go by his middle name of “Bryan.”) “The overall ‘Home’ sculpture is literally brilliant and reveals the flamingo’s inquisitiveness as it hunts for food in the shallows,” he wrote, referencing the title artist Matthew Mazzotta gave to the sculpture when he unveiled the jumbo creation last year. The airport commissioned the piece from Mazzotta for $520,000, which was chosen among more than 700 art proposals submitted from around the world. According to a news release posted by the airport, Mazzotta and the airport agreed that the character itself could use a nickname. The three finalists elicited a mixed response from community members and social media users, with some decrying the selection as an embarrassment. The sculpture depicts the giant bird dipping its head beneath the surface of the water, in an illusion created by metal panels and lighting attached to the ceiling. Tampa’s feathered friend joins a growing number of Phoebes nationwide. The name has risen in popularity in recent decades, standing as the 247th-most popular female baby name in 2021, according to data from the Social Security Administration. That year, the most recent for which data is available, 1235 babies were named Phoebe, representing 0.069% of total female births.