The value of a Toni Morrison novel Pinellas schools remove book by prize-winning author Toni Morrison | Jan. 26 Pinellas County school officials have pulled “The Bluest Eye” from all classrooms and libraries because one parent objected to the content of the novel. Rather than remove it from the one child’s learning environment, school officials took the novel from every classroom and every library in every high school in the county. This is a book that helped Toni Morrison win the Nobel Prize in literature. It is one of the best books I have ever read and made me a lifelong Toni Morrison fan. Isn’t that what we want for our students, for them to be lifelong readers? Some parents argue it’s not age appropriate because this book has a graphic incestuous rape scene. This book was selected for academically advanced International Baccalaureate and Advanced Placement students taking the class for college credit. I read this book when I was 18. These students want and need beautifully written prose that brings them to tears and helps them process the evils they and their friends face in life. That is what the best literature does. Lacy Zobel Hollings, Dunedin He inspires pride Eyes open | Column, Jan. 25 The column by the Tarpon Springs classroom teacher brings one hope for the future — and the present. Might Jeb Bush and Ron DeSantis just imagine what could result if all the taxpayer voucher money was expended on recruiting and compensating a caliber of instructors akin to this gentleman for each and every one of the public schools? And don’t tell me private school teachers are better because I attended both public and private schools and — let me use Jeb’s characterization from his recent column — it’s nonsense. We must hope and pray those stellar teachers reject political ignorance, individual discouragement and instead speak out like this columnist. Pride is what he inspires. David A. Eaton Sr., St. Petersburg The once and future ‘woke’ Eyes open | Column, Jan. 25 The people who provided the impetus to end slavery, give women the right to vote, end segregation and begin the civil rights era demonstrated insight, sensitivity, tolerance and compassion. For displaying these qualities, they would now be labeled “woke.” Those who carry their spirit in our time are driven to recognize and quash social injustice, bring acceptance to the LGBTQ community, achieve genuine equal rights, protect the environment and defend the democratic process. Gerald Kaszer, St. Petersburg