ST. LOUIS — Pat Maroon’s trip back to his hometown was already a win just hours after the Lightning’s team charter flight landed. Maroon, who grew up in the St. Louis suburb of Oakville, rushed off the team flight Friday evening to watch his 14-year-old son Anthony’s hockey game. Teammates Brayden Point, Zach Bogosian and Haydn Fleury joined Maroon. “I never get to see him play,” Maroon said. “It’s always through (watching live streams) and I had an opportunity to take some guys last night to watch him play and his team won 9-1 and he played a really good game. Just happy just to be back, and I know it’s one day but every day with my son is a bonus point.” The timing of the Lightning’s five-game road trip, beginning tonight in St. Louis, matched up with his son’s game, and even though Maroon just missed watching Anthony score a goal, he was able to see him notch an assist. “I think the most important thing was that I was there,” Maroon said. “I got there safe ... and he played a heck of a game. He got a really cool assist on the power play there, so it was nice to see him get rewarded when I was there.” Maroon’s son plays on the same St. Louis Blues AAA team that he played on growing up. Anthony’s team attended the Lightning’s  morning skate at the Enterprise Center. “To follow in my footsteps is cool,” Maroon said. “He’s a better player than me. So hopefully he can continue his dream and to continue to work hard. His hands and his vision, he’s got better boots than his old man.” With an audience of family and friend in the stands, Maroon was one of the last Lightning players off the ice for skate. “How many times does Pat Maroon say, ‘Hey, let’s do another drill?’ and stay out there because he wants to keep ripping around there for his kid,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “So it’s pretty cool. ... He’s got an extra jump in his step and can see how his son looks up to him and adores him.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.