A better road. New Pasco County interchange at Overpass Road and I-75 opens to traffic | Jan. 19 Former Pasco County Commissioner Mike Moore hit it out of the park when he proclaimed that the new interchange, including the “flyover” ramp, along congested areas of I-75 in Wesley Chapel would make the local residents quality of life better. Having used the interchange three times already, I find that it is now a walk in the park for me. Our local citizens are now sitting through only one traffic light versus five traffic lights, also driving a quarter of a mile versus 4 miles. A big thanks to our Pasco County commissioners, Gov. Ron DeSantis and the Florida Department of Transportation for pushing through this much-needed project. Dale Kimball, Wesley Chapel Masked-up surgeons Extend mask, vaccine bans? | Jan. 19 How nice of Gov. Ron DeSantis to want our business community to be “free” to prosper so long as they do not follow guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If he truly believes that masks do not help prevent the spread of disease, when is he going to “free” the surgeons and nurses? How ironic it would be if DeSantis needed a surgical procedure and all operating room staff were maskless. Let’s hope that the political pandering stops at the O.R. doors. Ray Hansen, St. Petersburg A real doozy Extend mask, vaccine bans? | Jan. 19 The latest political move by Gov. Ron DeSantis and Florida Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo is a real doozy! They want to keep everyone “free” by banning mandates for protective masks and vaccines. Eliminating two effective public health modalities is shortsighted, but the notion that we’ll never need either a mask or vaccine mandate is absolutely stupid. A smart move is to keep all options open and to take advantage of the best medications available. Dr. Ladapo’s bizarre statement that masks are not effective in preventing the spread of COVID-19 and his dismissal of the value of vaccines is not good public health advice. Lives are at stake, and even if these proven medications are not 100% effective — what is? — they still keep people out of the hospital and save lives. Jon Crawfurd, Gulfport But not for them Extend mask, vaccine bans? | Jan. 19 Gov. Ron DeSantis struts about, saying that permanently banning mask mandates will “protect” the citizens. That certainly doesn’t include citizens who are elderly, immunocompromised or others who have low resistance. Bob Rosenberger, Spring Hill