The Florida State Seminoles will begin their most anticipated season in years with a blockbuster game against LSU and an early trip to Clemson before rivalry matchups with Miami and Florida in the closing three weeks. The non-conference schedule was previously announced, but the conference schedule was not known until it was released Monday evening on the ACC Network. FSU kicks off its season against LSU in Orlando on Sunday, Sept. 3 in what is expected to be a top-10 showdown to start Mike Norvell’s fourth year. The Seminoles edged LSU last season in New Orleans thanks to a blocked extra point. The ‘Noles open conference play at Boston College in Week 3 and face rival Clemson the next week. That contest against the Tigers will be a showdown between the ACC’s two leading contenders and FSU’s third game away from home in its first four weeks. It will not, however, be a divisional matchup, because divisions no longer exist. With the Atlantic and Coastal gone, the top two teams will meet in the ACC title game in Charlotte. Each team has three annual opponents, while the 10 teams rotate through twice (once home, once away) over a four-year cycle. After Clemson and an open date, FSU hosts another one of the ACC’s biggest brands, Virginia Tech, on family weekend on Oct. 7. The Seminoles’ final month begins with a trip to Pitt on Nov. 4, followed by their ACC finale against Miami. They end the season at their other in-state rival, Florida, with a Football Championship Subdivision opponent (North Alabama) sandwiched between them. 2023 FSU football schedule Sept. 3 (Sunday): vs. LSU, Orlando Sept. 9: vs. Southern Miss Sept. 16: at Boston College Sept. 23: at Clemson Sept. 30: Off Oct. 7: vs. Virginia Tech Oct. 14: vs. Syracuse Oct. 21: vs. Duke Oct. 28: at Wake Forest Nov. 4: at Pitt Nov. 11: vs. Miami Nov. 18: vs. North Alabama Nov. 25: at Florida • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.