2022 was a strange year for anyone looking to buy property in the Tampa Bay area. For the first half of the year, historically low interest rates fueled by the COVID-19 pandemic triggered a home buying frenzy. “We saw multiple offers and homes selling over the list price,” said Jennifer Zales, an agent with Coldwell Banker Realty who sold several of the highest grossing homes of the year. But by the third quarter, interest rates started going up. The volume of sales began to decrease and homes were no longer selling as quickly. Even amid all the chaos, the luxury market remained strong. “We achieved new highs in 2022 in areas like Davis Islands and along the beaches,” Zales said. The Tampa Bay Times reviewed data from the Multiple Listing Service to find the top home sales of the year. The 10 most expensive homes brought in more than $110 million in total. Nine out of the top 10 were bought in cash. According to a 2022 trend report from Coldwell Banker, one-third of affluent individuals surveyed believe that real estate is the safest investment one can make when compared to stocks, bonds, pensions, and cryptocurrency. “I hear this sentiment consistently from my buyers, which is why I expect this end of the market to remain stable,” Zales said. Take a look back at the most expensive homes sold in our region last year. 1. $15 million - 78 Adalia Ave., Tampa The basics: This 7,017 square foot home is located on a 0.4-acre waterfront lot on Davis Islands. It was built in 2015 and has five bedrooms and 4.5 bathrooms. The agent: Jennifer Zales from Coldwell Banker was listed as the sole agent. Special features: Inside you’ll find a state of the art kitchen with a separate catering kitchen and wine cellar, an elevator up to the second floor and a home gym complete with a sauna. The terrace has an outdoor kitchen, a waterfront infinity pool as well as a private dock. There’s also an eight-car garage equipped with electric vehicle charging stations. 2. $13 million - 1761 Brightwaters Blvd. NE, St. Petersburg The basics: This 8,234-square-foot home has five bedrooms, five full bathrooms and four half baths. It was built in 2022 on a 0.4-acre waterfront lot in the Snell Isle neighborhood. The agents: Alexis Logan from Coldwell Banker was the listing agent. Chad Ramsey from Berkshire Hathaway HomeService was the selling agent. Special features: The house includes an in-law suite with a kitchenette, an entertainment room with a pool table, a bar, a theater and a balcony with views of the bay and the St. Petersburg skyline. In the backyard you’ll find a pool, a spa, an outdoor kitchen and a private dock complete with a boat lift. 3. $12.3 million - 48 Adalia Ave., Tampa The basics: Built in 2004, this Davis Islands home has six bedrooms and 7.5 bathrooms. The house is 7,367 square feet and is on nearly 0.4 acres of bayfront property. The agents: Jennifer Zales from Coldwell Banker was the listing agent. Heidi Odio and Kerry Lather from Compass Florida LLC were the selling agents. Special features: This home has several additional living spaces including a formal dining room, first floor guest suite, executive den/office, gym and state-of-the-art media room. Outdoors there is an additional kitchen, a covered terrace, a pool, a private dock and a boat lift. 4. $11.75 million - 1523 Oceanview Dr., Tierra Verde The basics: This 9,463-square-foot home has six bedrooms and six full bathrooms and three half bathrooms. It is located on a 0.9-acre waterfront lot and was built in 2009. The agent: Liz Heinkel with Smith & Associates was the listed as the sole agent. Special features: There’s a billiard room and a movie theater with seating for 12. The outdoor area has a wood burning fireplace, a saltwater infinity pool and a pizza oven. 5. $10.8 million - 2621 N Dundee St., Tampa The basics: This 8-bedroom, 9.5-bathroom house is 10,879 square feet in total. It was built in 2018 on a 0.9-acre lot in the Sunset Park neighborhood. The agents: Jeff Shelton from Compass Florida LLC was the listing agent. Paul DeSantis from Premier Sotheby’s International Realty was the selling agent. Special features: This home has a mediterranean style design with several terraces and handcrafted archways. The master suite has a dressing room with its own hidden entrance to the home gym. 6. $10. 7 million - 15802 Gulf Blvd., Reddington Beach The basics: This new construction home was built in 2022 and has six bedrooms and 6.5 bathrooms. It is 8,500 square feet in total and is located on a 0.4-acre lot. The agents: Michelle Fitz-Randolph from Coldwell Banker Realty is the listing agent. Jennifer Zales from Coldwell Banker Realty is the selling agent. Special features: This home has 90 feet of water frontage and includes includes an elevator, and a 10-car garage. 7. $9.95 million - 1997 Oceanview Dr., Tierra Verde The basics: This is a 10,238-square-foot home with seven bedrooms, eight full bathrooms and two half bathrooms. It was built in 1999 and is located on a 0.7-acre lot. The agents: Dania Perry from Century 21 Jim White & Associates was the listing agent. Robyn Gunn from Premier Sotheby’s International Realty was the selling agent. Special features: The living room includes a built in saltwater aquarium and 23-foot high ceilings. There’s also a wine room, a game room and a theater room. The pool features a hot tub as well as a built in tiki bar. 8. $9.89 million - 38 Sandpiper Rd., Tampa The basics: There are six bedrooms and 7.5 bathrooms in this 7,608-square-foot home. This South Tampa house was built in 2020 on a 0.2-acre waterfront lot. The agent: Jennifer Zales from Coldwell Banker Realty was the sole agent. Special features: Indoors you’ll find a wine cellar, a full bar, an elevator and a theater. Outdoors there’s an infinity pool and a boat dock. 9. $8.5 million - 5117 W Poe Ave., Tampa The basics: This is a new construction home set to be built on a 0.29-acre waterfront lot in South Tampa. The home will be 6,500 square feet in total and will include five bedrooms and 5.5 bathrooms. The agent: Jeff Shelton from Compass Florida represented the buyer and the seller. Special features: The home’s design includes a floating staircase, a sauna and a wine room. 10. $8.5 million - 280 Gulf Blvd., Belleaire Shores The basics: This four-bedroom, five-bathroom home spans 3,444 square feet. It was built in 1978 on a 1.16-acre beachfront lot in a gated community. The agents: Andrea Hartmann from the Sandy Hartmann Group was the listing agent. Dania Perry from Century 21 Jim White & Associates was the selling agent. Special features: The master suite has a private balcony, his and hers walk in closets and a newly remodeled en-suite bathroom. There is also a garden with a gazebo, covered patio space, a heated swim spa and private beach access.