Recycle what’s worthwhile Report touts recycling fix | Jan. 16 My condo complex in Dunedin recently stopped recycling due to the rising costs from the recycling company. They blamed the extra work of sorting and removing unrecyclable items. As far as I know the company does not offer the option to pick up only “high-value” items. If they did and it was cheaper, I’m sure we would renew the contract. Janet Kruger, Dunedin Home rule for thee? County home rule not among Latvala’s priorities | Jan. 15 So if I understand new Pinellas County Commissioner Chris Latvala, the “free state of Florida” is only free at the state level? Counties and municipalities lack “home rule”? So why does the state bother having local elections? If we are all under the watchful eye of Tallahassee let’s save all that wasted money on elections and positions like the Pinellas County Commission. Latvala can find a new job if, as he is seeming to point out, his current position is a waste of time. Robert John Spencer, Dunedin The only difference Trump, Biden documents cases differ in key ways | Jan. 17 I think that the only real difference between former President Donald Trump and President Joe Biden being in possession of classified documents is the news coverage — how much there is and how prominently it is played, or not. John Spengler, Spring Hill Naming names Florida wants its own version of Michigan’s Hillsdale College | Jan. 15 I think that so many of Gov. Ron DeSantis’ current actions would be highly consistent with that of a frat jock bully. Oh, how I miss the past when Florida was blessed with decent, highly competent and caring governors like LeRoy Collins, Reubin Askew, Bob Graham, Bob Martinez, Lawton Chiles, Charlie Crist and maybe even Jeb Bush. Louis A. Carliner, Lecanto Out with the old The president’s political future is clouded by document probe | Jan. 14 With regards to the potential 2024 election rematch between President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump, I think they should rewatch President John Kennedy’s inaugural address when he said that the torch has been passed to a new generation. Phil Schantz, Largo