Both were wrong Pasco dad seeks apology after principal calls his boss to complain | Jan. 18 Neither the principal nor father acted appropriately. The father had no child at the school and did not belong there. I believe that the principal was mean-spirited in complaining to the intruder’s boss, taking a shot at his livelihood. That act shows the state of political nastiness these days. More wisely, I believe that the principal should have called security and asked for the disruptive father to be removed. Marc Yacht, Hudson A few more facts Trump, Biden documents cases differ in key ways | PolitiFact, Jan. 17 It appears to me that PolitiFact left out a couple of facts: 1. The first batch of President Joe Biden’s documents was discovered Nov. 2, 2022, days before midterm election, and the discovery was kept under wraps for two months. 2. At a press conference, his spokeswoman said the discovery process was “complete.” But additional documents were discovered the next day. I think I know why, but it is still worth asking: Why the FBI did not get involved in a search of his private office and his house? Daniel Ledet, Sun City Center Selective readings How the distortion of Dr. King’s words brings more, not less, racial division within American society | Column, Jan. 16 Professor Hajar Yazdiha makes an important point about how Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s words have been used incorrectly to further right wing politics. I would add our governor to the list of people trying to suppress the history of racism in this country. Ann Jamieson, St. Petersburg Global warming, home rule Tampa Bay officials release plan for dealing with climate change | Jan. 17 I am happy the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council has completed a plan to strengthen the region against extreme weather. With climate change causing bigger and stronger hurricanes, we need to get our act together sooner rather than later. Oh wait, how soon before the global warming denying Florida governor and his acolytes in the Legislature enact a law that forbids local governments from enacting any or all of the plan? Special session anyone? David Burg, Tampa