TAMPA — First it was Tom Brady, then Byron Leftwich. In separate interviews earlier this week, the quarterback and coordinator proclaimed the Bucs as healthy as they’ve been all season. On Thursday, their statements were mostly corroborated. Attendance for the team’s first full practice for Monday night’s NFC wild-card game against the Cowboys appeared promising, if not perfect. All seven players deemed inactive for Sunday’s regular-season finale against the Falcons were suited up. So was center Robert Hainsey, who practiced on a limited basis after exiting that game with a hamstring injury. Nose tackle Vita Vea, limited to one game in the last month due to a calf injury, “came out and did some stuff. He’s coming along,” coach Todd Bowles said. Cornerback Carlton Davis, who missed the Falcons game with a shoulder injury, is “good to go,” Bowles added. Left tackle Donovan Smith, sidelined two of the last three games with a foot ailment, is “feeling a lot better,” according to his coach. Even receiver Russell Gage, who appeared to injure his back after a first-half touchdown catch in Atlanta, said after practice that he’s “ready to roll.” The only glaring area of concern remains at center. While Bowles remains noncommittal on the status of veteran Ryan Jensen (who practiced again Thursday) and Hainsey continues his recovery, Nick Leverett — who slid from left guard to replace Hainsey on Sunday — is nursing a sore leg, according to Bowles. But considering Monday night’s stakes, and the fact the Bucs have a built-in extra day this week, nearly everyone on the roster could be available for the Cowboys game. “You can’t get up next Sunday if you lose this ballgame and say, ‘We can get back next week and get better,’” Bowles said. “So it’s win or go home. There’s urgency all over with every playoff team.” Wirfs honored by media Pro Bowl right tackle Tristan Wirfs on Thursday was presented the 2022 Mark Cook Memorial Good Guy Award, presented annually to the Bucs player deemed most gracious and accommodating with the media. Fox Sports’ Greg Auman, president of the Tampa Bay chapter of the Pro Football Writers of America, presented Wirfs the award after practice. It’s named in honor of Cook, who covered the team for Pewter Report until his death in 2021. Will red-zone issues resurface? Seems the red-zone sturdiness shown by the Cowboys defense in the Sept. 11 season opener against the Bucs was no fluke. Four months later, Dallas ranks ninth in the NFL in red-zone defense, allowing touchdowns on only 52% of possessions inside the 20-yard line. The Bucs had to settle for short Ryan Succop field goals on their first three red-zone trips in that 19-3 triumph, scoring a touchdown — a 5-yard Tom Brady pass to Mike Evans — on the fourth. The Bucs are scoring touchdowns on only 52% of their trips inside the red zone this season, which ranks 22nd in the league and represents a huge dropoff from 2021 (65.8%). “It’s huge to get seven (points) instead of three,” Bowles said Thursday. “You get three against these guys, they’re so explosive on offense, they can make you pay for it and it won’t mean anything. So, seven points would be a lot better.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.