The big story: Gov. Ron DeSantis has made no secret of his disdain for certain lessons pertaining to race, diversity and inclusion. He referred to the ideas as “trendy ideology” in his inauguration speech, saying he wanted to keep these out of schools and universities. In late December, his office sent a letter to state colleges and universities asking for details on how the subjects are being taught, and how much state money is being spent on such pursuits. The request came at the same time a court has paused implementation of state law limiting such instruction on college campuses. The move drew scorn from faculty leaders, who called it an “affront to democracy.” Read more from the News Service of Florida, Florida Politics. Hot topics Library books: The Department of Education has opened public commenting on new rules relating to media specialist training for choosing books. Critics say it’s a road to censorship, while supporters consider the proposal “95% amazing.” University research: A University of Florida College of Medicine report sharply criticized the methods used by Dr. Joseph Ladapo in reaching his vaccine guidance for the state. The report did not conclude that Ladapo, a faculty member and also state surgeon general, committed any research misconduct. Superintendents: Leon County superintendent Rocky Hanna announced plans to seek a third term, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. Teacher recruitment: During introductory committee meetings, a state lawmaker asked for an update on the state’s program to help military veterans become teachers, Florida Phoenix reports. New schools: The Volusia County school district opened a new elementary school for the new semester, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. Absenteeism: Marion County school district officials are devising new initiatives to target chronic student absenteeism, WKMG reports. From the court docket ... A state appeals court refused to guarantee financial protection for a family of a Parkland school shooting victim as they sought to sue gun manufacturer Smith and Wesson, the News Service of Florida reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... Does a perpetual motion machine really never stop moving? Adam Savage takes a deeper look. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.