Former Florida Gators star Tim Tebow received the latest honor in his legendary career Monday when he was announced as a 2023 inductee into the College Football Hall of Fame. Former Miami Hurricanes offensive lineman Bryant McKinnie and former Georgia/Miami coach Mark Richt are among the other inductees in the class, the National Football Foundation announced. Tebow won the Heisman Trophy as the nation’s most outstanding player in 2007 and was a finalist each of the next two seasons. He also helped the Gators win the national title in 2006 and 2008. He left UF with five NCAA records and 28 school records. Among them: he became the first player ever to rush and pass for at least 20 touchdowns in a season. Tebow finished his career with 9,285 passing yards and 88 touchdowns and 2,947 rushing yards and another 55 scores. In 2019, the Tampa Bay Times named him the top player in state history. Tebow will become the 10th former Florida player to receive the honor. The others: Emmitt Smith, Danny Wuerffel, Dale Van Sickel, Steve Spurrier, Jack Youngblood, Wilber Marshall, Carlos Alvarez, Wes Chandler and Lomas Brown. McKinnie is arguably the best offensive linemen in state history. He never allowed a sack in his two all-conference seasons with the Hurricanes. He was a unanimous All-American in 2001 as part of a national title team regarded as the most talented ever. He won the Outland Trophy that season as the nation’s top interior lineman and finished eighth in the Heisman voting. McKinnie and Richt will give the Hall 15 former Miami coaches/players. Richt was both, although he is much more widely known for his head coaching career than his time as a Hurricanes quarterback. He went 171-64 (.728 winning percentage) over his 18 seasons as a head coach and was one of the most respected men in his profession, on and off the field. Richt won two SEC titles at Georgia and led the Bulldogs to seven top-10 seasons. He went 26-13 at Miami and led the ’Canes to their first trip to the ACC title game in 2017. Richt also won a pair of national championships as a Florida State assistant under Bobby Bowden. The induction ceremony is scheduled for Dec. 5 in Las Vegas. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.