While it is true that spring training baseball was first held in St. Petersburg in 1914 on a long-lost field somewhere near Coffee Pot Bayou, the city’s long history with the great game took root and grew on the downtown waterfront in three successive ballparks with overlapping footprints. On those grounds we witnessed hundreds of games played by the two most successful teams in major league history, the Yankees and Cardinals. It was there where 23 World Series and 37 league champions began their seasons, the Gashouse Gang, Murderers’ Row, the Miracle Mets and our own 2008 American League champion Tampa Bay Rays among them. Three teams played their inaugural games there. It was where Babe Ruth’s home runs bombarded the West Coast Inn beyond right field and Mickey Mantle’s splashed down in Tampa Bay over the left field fence. Nearly 200 Hall of Famers played on those fields, including members of the first induction class in 1933 and this summer’s incoming class. And it all started a little more than one hundred years ago, when Pittsburgh transplant Al Lang brought us the Boston Braves who became the first of seven teams to train on the picturesque green that in 1919 The St. Petersburg Times called “St. Petersburg’s front yard … everybody’s lawn.” Whether it was Waterfront Park, Al Lang Field or Al Lang Stadium, major leaguers played there on the water’s edge for nearly 90 springs. The last major league game played there was March 28, 2008, ending a run that saw the Braves, Yankees, Cardinals, Giants, Mets, Orioles and Rays call it home. “You could make the case that more great players played there than on any field in history,” 10-time All-Star and Tampa native Steve Garvey told me. Walk up to Al Lang Stadium today, and you will experience none of the feelings of civic pride that should emanate from such a baseball landmark. Lang’s name isn’t even visible on the ballpark’s exterior. There are more than 4,000 historical markers in Florida. Lang’s work hasn’t merited one. Yet it was the perpetually youthful two-time mayor who brought major league baseball to St. Petersburg and kept it here for five decades until his death in 1960. Much of that time, the city had not one, but two high-profile teams propelling the city’s transformation from a sleepy fishing village of a few thousand to a premier spring time tourist destination site. Imagine how many times the Yankees were approached about relocating their spring camp to another city. Yet the storied franchise remained here 1925 to 1961, thanks to the placating efforts of Lang. New York newspapermen referred to the start of Yankees spring training each year as “the anniversary of the discovery of St. Petersburg.” When Al Lang Field was rebuilt as Al Lang Stadium in 1977, 17 years after Lang’s death, city leaders dedicated a 12-by-18-inch bronze plaque in his memory. It remains inconspicuously there now on a small pedestal outside the park, next to a green and yellow plastic newspaper box filled with free tourist guides. Oh, how the city’s greatest ambassador would have loved the irony. That tiny plaque holding 49 words is the only tribute to the man who still to this day did more for baseball in Florida than anyone else. Al’s legacy in 49 words. That’s roughly two tweets for a man The St. Petersburg Evening Independent once ranked behind only the city’s co-founder, John C. Williams, as its most important historical figure. After the final Grapefruit League game at the ballpark in 2008, historian Will Michaels wrote in The then-St. Petersburg Times, “Whatever the future may hold for the stadium, the city owes it to Al (Lang) to continue to commemorate his name and memory in some prominent manner.” In 1998, the St. Petersburg Chamber of Commerce unveiled 85 brass home plates, known as the Baseball Boulevard, to be installed across the city from Al Lang Stadium to Tropicana Field. Each plate featured a significant event meant to commemorate the city’s spring training history; some included Lang’s name. Sadly, most seemed to have disappeared. The city’s apathy is both disappointing and puzzling. Especially so when considering what other nearby municipalities have done to memorialize their spring baseball histories. The Tinker Field History Plaza in Orlando and Clearwater’s Monument Park at Jack Russell Stadium are aesthetically pleasing, educational, respectful and celebratory. While those cities have rich baseball histories, neither reached the level of St. Pete. Just four months ago, at the urging of the Society for American Baseball Research, Daytona Beach unveiled a historical marker at the field where Jackie Robinson first suited up for the Brooklyn Dodgers organization in 1946. “When I first found out that Robinson practiced there, I was embarrassed,” admitted Keith Willis, the city’s parks and recreation director. “I played on the field. We walked on the field. I grew up across the street and didn’t know that Robinson played here. Nobody told us anything. This is something that the community needs to know, especially the younger people.” Given the rapid growth of downtown, I wonder how many of our new neighbors are just like Willis. Are they unaware that the likes of Ruth, Gehrig, Aaron, Clemente, Musial, Mantle, Mays, DiMaggio, Koufax, Drysdale, Seaver, Gibson, Ryan and Robinson all played a short walk from their homes? I wonder how many northerners in town to watch the Phillies, Yankees, Blue Jays or Pirates spring games would schedule a visit to a well-appointed, free outdoor baseball exhibit? City marketing folks may see an opportunity. Building a winning tradition of its own at Al Lang over the past 12 years has been the Tampa Bay Rowdies Soccer team, a community asset by any measure. I’m guessing the footballers would likely welcome some kind of historical display on the grounds that would only enhance their game day experience. Community leaders have recently discussed the redevelopment of this historic site across the street from the South Yacht Basin. Let’s hope those talks include a shared desire to celebrate the city’s past. The momentum is there. It began with the recent erections of monuments to heroic trailblazer Elder Jordan, aviation pioneer Tony Jannus and the City’s “Courageous 12,” Black police officers who successfully battled racial discrimination within their ranks. Let’s continue those efforts by properly memorializing both the game and the man who were so important to shaping our city. Rick Vaughn is the author “100 Years of Baseball on St. Petersburg’s Waterfront: How the Game Helped Shape A City” and was the vice president of communications for the Tampa Bay Rays from 1996 to 2016.