The hottest is yet to come Tampa had warmest year yet in 2022. What’s next? | Jan. 11 A recent article just pointed out that last year was one of the hottest around the globe, and the hottest in Tampa since records have been kept. What it did not mention is that it is likely one of the coolest years we will experience for the rest of our lives. How much cooler it will be compared to the rest of our years will depend on how we navigate our future and whether we decide collectively to hold the fossil fuel industry accountable. Brad Rosenheim, St. Petersburg Make them the Florida Rays St. Pete Chamber backs Rays’ Trop plan | Column, Jan. 13 I love baseball. The Tampa Bay Rays have been a refreshing, underdog, small market (read: “affordable”) team with surprisingly innovative success. But they are difficult for the average family in greater Tampa to get to — especially at rush hour over the bridge. And they lose star players they develop for lack of money to pay them. There is plenty of accessible and affordable land near the interstate highways. There are also great fans in Orlando. Big money interests that buy season’s suites in a larger circle of market could double to invest in a “Florida” Rays team. The result would bring the team closer to parity with the teams in the American League East Division. Tropicana Field or its replacement will never attract fans who can so easily just watch them on TV and lose their favorite players. Tom Nezwek, Homosassa Calling Barney Fife Garland appoints special counsel to investigate Biden docs | Jan. 13 Great news that U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland is appointing a special counsel to investigate the finding of classified documents at President Joe Biden’s property. If these were overdue library books, there would be no question about who checked them out, but our nation’s secrets don’t seem to require the same security. Perhaps Deputy Barney Fife of the Mayberry Police Department could train our federal government on how to maintain a chain of custody for evidence/classified documents! Elton Fowler, Tampa ‘Cooperating’ is required Garland appoints special counsel to investigate Biden docs | Jan. 13 Regarding President Joe Biden and classified documents: Wow, I love it when people being investigated say they are cooperating with the investigators. What, is that supposed to get them points? So, all that hidden stuff is now coming out? Dan Raulerson, Plant City