TAMPA — It takes a lot for the smile to run away from Tristan Wirfs’ face. The Bucs’ Pro Bowl right tackle not only may have the most ability on the team, he leads the locker room in affability as well. However, nothing irritates Wirfs more than hearing the season-long suggestion that the strong men on the offensive line are the weakest link of the team. “That was tough hearing that narrative for a long time,” Wirfs said, his eyebrows narrowing. “You know, like I said throughout the whole season, I trust all these guys with my life. I come to work with them every day, and I love them to death. I know the work we put in every day. We try to block out the noise to an extent, but everything gets back to you.” Wirfs has been able to block the most fearsome pass rushers in the NFL, but he struggles to contain the persistent blame game that says the Bucs would be better if not for poor blocking. To be fair, Tampa Bay was forced to rebuild its offensive line in the offseason. Guard Ali Marpet unexpectedly quit the game at age 28. Guard Alex Cappa signed with the Bengals as a free agent. Center Ryan Jensen suffered a significant knee injury on the second day of training camp and only returned to practice last week. The result has been a dramatic reduction in points, from averaging more than 30 per game the previous three seasons to ranking 24th with 18.5. The Bucs saw their touchdowns diminish from 56 to 29. “We had guys leave,” Wirfs said matter-of-factly. “I was trying my best to be a leader in that room and be a guy all those guys could turn to or to lean on. I’m glad to shoulder everything for them, so I love it.” The best at his position Nobody has bigger shoulders than Wirfs, the 6-foot-5, 320-pound former first-round pick from Iowa. Wirfs, 23, and his 21-year-old sister, Kaylia, were both raised by a single mother, Sara, who has worked for Target in Cedar Rapids since she was 16. He was a tremendous athlete and a state championship wrestler in high school. He allowed only one sack as a rookie and was selected to his second straight Pro Bowl this year. When he was named All-Pro last season, a distinction reserved for the best player at his position in both conferences, Wirfs wasn’t even sure what the honor meant. “I remember Jensen coming up to me and having a little conversation with me. Then Tom (Brady) did, too,” Wirfs said. “I was like, ‘What is this about?’ But it was a really special honor.” Now the Bucs need and want even more from Wirfs. Not just on the field, but off. With Jensen focusing on recovering from his knee injury, there has been a leadership void on the offensive line that Wirfs was willing to fill. “He’s become more vocal,” coach Todd Bowles said. “I would be surprised if he wasn’t named a captain next year.” Bucs outside linebacker Anthony Nelson was a teammate of Wrifs’ at Iowa. He remembers the 18-year-old man-child who arrived in the Hawkeyes’ weight room. “He stepped in and improved every day,” Nelson said. “He came in and played at such a high level, but he also worked to get better every day, and that’s what I saw in college, too. He came in as a talented guy and then kept getting better, and you’re like, ‘Man, this guy doesn’t stop.’” Finding new ways to contribute But Wirfs has had his share of adversity, too. He said he had never been injured enough to miss a game at any level of football until he suffered an ankle sprain in the Bucs’ wild-card win over Philadelphia last year and was forced to sit out the division-round game against the Rams. His backup, Josh Wells, also left the game with an injury. The result was Brady was hit 15 times in that game, including nine times by Rams outside linebacker Von Miller. “That was terrible,” Wirfs said. “That was the first time I ever missed a game in high school or anything. That sucked. I will never forget that.” Wirfs was reminded of it again a few weeks ago when he suffered another sprained ankle in an overtime loss at Cleveland. This time, he worried it might end his season. “I was trying to compare to last year, how last year my ankle felt,” Wirfs said. “There were some things that were really similar and there were things that were different, so I had no idea. I was like, ‘Oh shoot.’ Then they told me it wasn’t broken, so I thought, ‘Good. That’s the biggest thing.’ I figured if nothing is broken, I will be OK.” Injured players spend so much time with trainers and in rehab, they don’t always get to attend practice or meetings. The feeling of isolation is inescapable. “I think for everyone, being hurt, you feel so disconnected,” Wirfs said. “You’re in here peeking through the window watching them practice. It’s like that SpongeBob (SquarePants) meme. You do your best to still be around, push up the younger guys, Do whatever. Just doing your best to be around. But it does suck.” Still, Wirfs returned after only three weeks. He aggravated the injury in his first game back two weeks ago at Arizona but has continued to play. Unable to help on the field, he became more vocal in meetings and on the sideline. “When I was hurt, I did my best to be more of a leader this year,” Wirfs said. “I’ve heard that a lot during camp, so trying to fill that role and step into their shoes.” He is expected to start against the Falcons Sunday and will have to lead again. Donovan Smith is out with a foot injury, so the Bucs are down to their third left tackle in Brandon Walton. Wirfs will shoulder even more of the responsibility as the lone bright spot for the offensive line. “I don’t know if I’ve ever seen a guy come in like that,” offensive coordinator Byron Leftwich said. “Obviously, there’s been some great tackles in this league that I wasn’t around, so I haven’t been able to see everything, but he was this way when he walked through the door. “... It’s tough to really beat what he’s already done though, right? You go through a 16- (or) 17-game season and you don’t give up sacks and don’t give up pressures, that’s unheard of. ... To have a guy like Tristan on that side that you can just say, ‘Hey, he handles that guy, you don’t have to think about him.’ It’s unique, man.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.