Choosing who will develop the Tropicana Field site may be the most important decision Mayor Ken Welch will make, no matter how many years he remains at City Hall. The 86-acre, multibillion-dollar project is a once in a generation opportunity to double down on the city’s success, especially the downtown area. He appears headed toward choosing one of the options by the end of the month. The editorial board is taking a look at the four proposals Welch is considering. Late last month, we wrote about the Tampa Bay Rays-Hines proposal. Up this week is Sugar Hill Community Partners, created by San Francisco-based JMA Ventures. The group’s proposal calls for a 350-room business hotel, a 200-unit lifestyle hotel, a conference center, a 3,000 person live event venue, retail space, a roller rink and 4,907 housing units on site and 325 units off site. The first phase would be completed in 2027 and the last phase in 2034. The group’s leaders said their plan carves out 17 acres for a stadium and additional mixed-use space, though they pointed out that they cannot control whether the Tampa Bay Rays would want to stay at the site or develop that 17 acres. Sugar Hill first submitted a proposal in 2021 and was one of two finalists selected by previous Mayor Rick Kriseman. After he came into office last year, Welch put out a new request for proposals that included 23 guiding principles, among them: creating a connected space, adding more affordable housing and acknowledging the site’s history, which included displacing African-American families in the 1970s from what was then called the Gas Plant area. Sugar Hill’s team also includes developer Machete Group, master planning architect Perkins Eastman, local architect Behar + Peteranecz Architecture, and several housing developers including PMG and Blue Sky Communities, which have built many affordable housing projects in the Tampa Bay area. The Sugar Hill group promotes its diversity, including African American developers, designers, engineers, contractors, advisers and other service providers, and many women-owned businesses or firms. What we like: We still have questions, though. Many center on the amount of affordable housing in Sugar Hill’s proposal. Of the 5,232 housing units, 1,605 will be for residents making less than 80% of the local median income. Another 1,011 will be set aside for people making 80 to 120% of the median income. In other words, half of all the units are designated for affordable housing. That’s a lot, more than twice of what’s in the Rays-Hines proposal. And it’s worth the reminder that often the only way to make affordable housing work is through some sort of government subsidy. Affordable housing is a priority for Welch, and the city needs more of it. But is packing this site with affordable housing really the best use of the property? Could building more market-rate housing on the site allow more money to be spun off to buy less expensive land, and thus build even more affordable housing in other parts of the city? At what point does too much affordable housing affect the ability to attract businesses to the site or cut into realizing other important goals including being the kind of economic engine that creates high-paying jobs? The other question that looms over the Sugar Hill proposal — and the other two that don’t include the Rays — is what happens to baseball? The Rays have their own promising proposal for the site. If the mayor doesn’t select the Rays-Hines group, the city could lose the baseball team — to Tampa or some other city. That would be a blow to St. Petersburg. How much of a blow depends on your own perspective, but it would hurt to lose the city’s only major professional sports team. Johnson said that he very much hopes the Rays continue to play at the site. “Unequivocally. No ifs ands or buts about it,” he said. “That’s a win-win for everybody.” Sugar Hill was a finalist in the last round of proposals, and we see them as one of the front-runners in the current process, given how its plan adheres so well to Mayor Welch’s priorities. The group has done its homework and appears to have the ear of many important players in the community. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.