Thursday night against the Vancouver Canucks, the Lightning escaped Amalie Arena with a 5-4 win. They needed those two points, because the road to start 2023 gets a lot tougher from there. In fact, the road in general has been rougher for the team this year than any in their recent past. As Tampa Bay (26-13-1) heads out west on its longest road trip of the season, five games over eight nights, it has just a .500 road record. The Lightning are 9-9-0 away from Amalie Arena, where they are 17-4-1 this season. The last three seasons, as they won two Stanley Cups and finished as runners-up to another, they posted winning records on the road. Last season for example, when they lost to the Avalanche in the Stanley Cup Final, the Lightning were 24-15-2 away from home ice. “Obviously, we all know how big road games are, especially when you go for five, you want to come home with more points than you do games,” forward Brandon Hagel said. “And we haven’t done a great job with that this year. So I think we all know what we need to do. I don’t think there’s too much talking that needs to be done. I think everyone knows what our record is on the road and what it is at home, and we’ve simply just got to be better.” This road trip, which begins Saturday night in St. Louis, will be particularly challenging. Unlike the Canucks (17-21-3), whose furious comeback Thursday night almost ended the Lightning’s home winning streak at eight, Tampa Bay will face teams that are challenging for postseason positioning. The Lightning also will be facing Western Conference teams they are not all that familiar with, but it cannot be an excuse, assistant coach Rob Zettler said. It’s more about Tampa Bay figuring out how it can be successful. “We’ll look at some of their tendencies and some of their top players, take the top line guys, what they’re doing to have success, but … at the end of the day, if your game is not in line, then there’s not much reason to worry about what the other guys are doing if you can’t figure out what you are doing,” Zettler said Wednesday after practice. “So I would say we do look at them. Probably show, before the game …. seven or eight clips of what they do or what they’re doing to try to have success and then we’ll focus more on us.” Head coach Jon Cooper sees the recent two-game sweep at home (including a 6-3 win over the Blue Jackets on Tuesday), where the Lightning squandered leads and didn’t put away teams early, as a good reminder that they need to focus on themselves. “We gotta be a better team when we get back than when we left,” Cooper said. “Let’s make sure we play better third periods than we have and play better with the lead than we did the last two nights. We have a heck of a home record. But we’re .500 on the road. And we need to improve on that. “So this won’t be easy. You are looking at some of the teams we’re playing and everybody is chasing a playoff spot. So it gets harder and harder, but we have to look at this. As I said all the time, we need to come back to this trip with more points than games played. And ... that’s the goal.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.