Two prominent Tampa Bay accounting firms are merging into one. St. Petersburg’s Spoor Bunch Franz and Clearwater’s Westbay CPAs are joining forces to form one firm with more than 100 employees, the companies announced Friday. While Spoor Bunch Franz is a full-service accounting firm, Westbay’s focus is forensic accounting and business valuation, including work on issues ranging from divorces and court cases to mergers and acquisitions. Spoor Bunch Franz managing partner Rich Franz said his firm had referred numerous clients to Westbay over the years, as the firms’ services really didn’t overlap at all. “Most people think of accountants as accountants, and most people tend to think of public accountants as doing tax work,” he said. “But it’s completely separate, and that’s the beauty of this merger. Westbay did not provide any traditional accounting services. They don’t do any tax work. They don’t do any traditional accounting-type services or audit-type work. And then on the other end, SBF did not do any of the forensic accounting or business valuation-type work that Westbay specializes in. It’s a complete add-on of additional services that the combined team can now offer.” The merger officially took place Jan. 1, with Westbay owner David Harper joining Spoor Bunch Franz’s executive team as an equity partner. Other financial terms were not disclosed. The companies will operate under their own respective brands for a while, Franz said, but the company will look at combined branding, including a possible renaming, in the coming months. Westbay’s Clearwater office will stay open, giving Spoor Bunch Franz a third location, along with its offices in St. Petersburg and Tampa. Franz said Westbay’s full staff of five would make the move, with no cuts planned. In fact, he said, the company intends to add headcount. “We both see it as a growth opportunity for Westbay and SBF,” he said. “It’s kind of the opposite of a traditional merger, where you’re looking for efficiencies in the numbers you’re reducing. We’re actually looking to increase that team over the next year, adding at least one or two more to be able to handle the growth that we expect will occur at Westbay.”