The big story: The saga at New College of Florida continues to grab attention with the bold pronouncements of newly appointed trustees aiming for massive change at the tiny Sarasota school. The latest salvo comes from trustee Eddie Speir, a private Christian school founder, who posted a statement online saying he wanted to look into dumping New College’s leadership and its faculty, with an eye toward eliminating tenure for instructors. “We’re in charge now,” conservative firebrand (and fellow New College appointee) Christopher Rufo tweeted. The trustees meet today. A student protest is planned. Read about the latest here. More from the Herald-Tribune. New College is not the only state university undergoing changes as part of the agenda forwarded by Florida Republicans. The push to eradicate “critical race theory” and other discussions about the role race plays in society has prompted professors on several campuses to change what they teach, The Atlantic/ProPublica reports. Hot topics Sex education: The Broward County school district announced plans to revise its human sexuality courses to align with new state law requirements on the instruction of gender identity and sexual orientation, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Gender issues: The Duval County high school students whose production of “Indecent” was canceled still aim to put on the show, but fear an anti-LGBTQ backlash if they perform it in Florida, Playbill reports. The play focuses on the controversy surrounding a 20th century Yiddish play, which featured women kissing on stage. • The Leon County school district is reviewing whether a bulletin board posted by the Gender Sexuality Alliance at a local high school violates state law because of its content on race and gender, Tallahassee Reports reports. Book challenges: Moms for Liberty sent the Broward County school district a list of several books it wants removed from high school shelves, WTVJ reports. AP African American studies: Students at a Miami-Dade County high school taking the pilot Advanced Placement course in African American studies had their second semester canceled after the state banned the course. The students said they feel robbed of a part of their education, the Miami Herald reports. Charter schools: Tallahassee Community College has become the first Florida college to be approved as a charter school authorizer, WCTV reports. That role has been held by school districts to this point. Student voices: The Duval County school district has revived a student advisory panel to offer input on the code of conduct and other matters that directly affect students, WJXT reports. From the police blotter ... A Volusia County elementary school substitute teacher was arrested on accusations of hitting a student with a book, WKMG reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Keeping tabs on your possible NCAA men’s basketball brackets? They’re not far off. Pay attention to Purdue center Zach Edey (15). • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.