Get a boss Florida party leader says he’s retiring | Jan. 10 I’m a northern transplant geezer with a background in local Connecticut politics. I’ve watched in dismay as Florida Democrats have hoisted themselves by their own petard. With the retirement of Manny Diaz, those same pols have a chance to get a no-nonsense, no BS boss. Someone in the style of Nancy Pelosi. Seek her help. No one in decades has done it better. Chuck Mullaney, St. Petersburg Insuring high prices Amid Florida’s property insurance crisis, Citizens sees its policies swell by 50% in 2022 | Jan. 9 I live on a small lake and have had lots of negative experiences with flood insurance, but I would like to chime in on auto insurance. I’m 75, living on Social Security, have had the same insurance company for over 10 years, no claims, no tickets. I drive under 2,000 miles a year. Last year my six month coverage for two vehicles was $1,200, my pre-renew proposal is being jumped to $1,600. I’m simply amazed at the corporate greed. Daniel Orsello, Tampa The people’s will Warren ruling no easy task | Jan. 11 Once again, we see the will of Hillsborough voters thwarted by the “free state of Florida” governor. Removing the twice-elected state attorney of Hillsborough County was a slap in the face, then how about Judge Jared Smith, who was voted out of office being appointed to another judicial position by DeSantis? David Burg, Tampa     Half-baked sentence Tampa Bay internet celebrity ‘Baked Alaska’ gets 60 days for Jan. 6 riot | Jan. 11 Martha Stewart spent more time in jail than Baked Alaska will. Good to know that the price of treason — at least that’s what I call it — is only two months in jail. Michael Zaccardi, Palm Harbor No front-page photo? Biden was ‘surprised’ government records were found at old office | Jan. 11 Buried on page 11A, under the obituaries, is an article bemoaning our president’s shock and awe over finding classified documents in an office he once rented. Where’s the front page photo of these aforementioned documents haphazardly splayed on the floor like at Mar-a-Lago? Mark H. Campbell, St. Petersburg