Masking the real truth Heavy-handedness in the free state of Florida | Editorial, Jan. 20 My wife works in a popular beach restaurant as a hostess where many of her customers have just gotten into town and made the restaurant where she works their first stop. She knows because they tell her when they are deciding whether to sit indoors or outdoors. For the first two years plus of the pandemic, most employees — especially my wife — wore masks. With what was surely mass exposure to virus-carrying diners, she never got sick. This year she has gone without a mask. Three weeks ago she came down with COVID. We are vaccinated and boosted, and that certainly helped minimize the symptoms. But simple logic says, “Masks work.” Flash Gordon C. Williamson, Largo A textbook lesson Fla. rejects new AP course on African American studies | Jan. 20 Next month is Black History Month. I don’t know how much history Florida students will learn in February, but I’m sure they’ll get a good civics lesson on how authoritarian government works. Joseph Brown, Tampa Just get it over with I’m Jeb Bush, and I support Florida’s new voucher plan | Column, Jan. 23 I think that expanding the school voucher program will be just another dose of the poison our Florida legislators and governors have been administering over many years to weaken public schools. One again, they are disguising their actions behind a promise of greater parental control. Why don’t they just shoot their victim in the heart and be done with it? Then, depending on their view of the value of public education to our state and country, Floridians can clearly know whom to thank or blame for committing this murder. Michael Patterson, Tampa Quite a contrast Here’s the harrowing story of one of my patients after Florida’s 15-week abortion ban | Column, Jan. 21 What a stark contrast in these two columns on the same page. Dr. Rachel Rapkin writes of one of her patients, a woman pregnant with twins who developed fatal complications at 20 weeks of pregnancy — past the 15-week ban. The woman was forced to come to the office every day as she waited in agony, in part, for cardiac activity to stop until doctors finally were permitted to end her pregnancy. On the same page under the headline “Florida’s Catholic bishops: Advocacy for legal protection of life in the womb must continue,” Bishop Gregory Parkes, along with seven other Catholic bishops, wrote that “we applaud the restrictions enacted in the 2022 Florida legislative session to limit abortion to the first 15 weeks of pregnancy.” I wonder if those bishops will read Dr. Rapkin’s article on the same page and feel any remorse for the trauma their righteousness has caused. Sharon Smith, Land O’ Lakes