TAMPA — If second-year center Robert Hainsey’s hamstring injury lingers, Sunday’s mildly disconcerting site of third-stringer Nick Leverett snapping to Tom Brady might manifest itself again next Monday night. Bucs coach Todd Bowles had no update on Hainsey, who exited in the first half of Sunday’s 30-17 loss to the Falcons, forcing Leverett to switch from left guard to replace the former Notre Dame captain. No MRI is planned at this time, though Bowles indicated that could change. As for the most prominent center on the roster, Bowles also had no update. Nearly two weeks after Ryan Jensen began his 21-day practice window with the team, there’s no indication the 2021 Pro Bowler will be ready to suit up against the Cowboys in the playoff opener. “I’ll give you the same answer as last week: Status quo, he’s working hard,” Bowles said. Jensen, who suffered an unspecified left knee injury the second day of training camp, began his 21-day practice window on Dec. 27. Eligible to be elevated from injured reserve at any time during that window, he has been seen only stretching and doing light one-on-one work during the limited practice portion open to reporters. “I’d like to see him out there, but we’ll see,” Bowles said. “The window’s starting to close this week, but we’ll see where we’re at.” Bowles also had no update on safety Keanu Neal (hip), tight end Kyle Rudolph (knee) or receiver Russell Gage (back), all of whom were shaken up Sunday in Atlanta. The Bucs will have a bonus walk-through practice Wednesday, then hold their first full-scale practice for the Cowboys on Thursday. Iron man by necessity On a day when Bowles held out a handful of injured starters and removed several others — including Tom Brady — during the game, the sight of Pro Bowl safety Antoine Winfield Jr. going the distance left many observers dumbfounded. It shouldn’t have. As Bowles explained Monday, he had to stick with Winfield — the only Buccaneer to play all 68 defensive snaps — out of necessity. Logan Ryan (knee) and Mike Edwards (hamstring, hip) were deemed inactive for the game, and the ranks were further depleted when Neal exited. At that point, Winfield was the only true safety still available. “We were out of bodies, so he had to go,” Bowles said. “We had four guys, we would’ve had to put a (defensive) lineman back there if he would’ve got (hurt).” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.