The return of Ryan Jensen, atop the postseason wish list of most Bucs fans, is one transaction closer to reality. The 2021 Pro Bowl center has been elevated from injured reserve to the active roster and is expected to make his season debut in tonight’s NFC wild-card game against the Cowboys at Raymond James Stadium. To make room on the roster, the Bucs waived backup linebacker J.J. Russell. Jensen, who suffered a left-knee injury the second day of training camp and hasn’t suited up for a game all season, began his 21-day practice window on Dec. 28. He recently has been taking first-team reps at center, and appears in play to start. Jensen’s return, even in a limited capacity, could buoy a patchwork offensive line hindered by injuries most of the season. Second-year center Robert Hainsey, who stepped into the starting role when Jensen went down, exited with a hamstring injury in last weekend’s regular season finale in Atlanta, but has practiced in a limited capacity this week and formally is listed as questionable. Meantime, left guard Nick Leverett — a starter the last 10 games — is dealing with knee and shoulder issues, and didn’t practice Friday or Saturday. He’s listed as doubtful. If Jensen starts at center and Leverett can’t go, beleaguered rookie Luke Goedeke — the season-opening starter at the position — is expected to replace him. A nine-year veteran noted for his physicality and on-field snarl, Jensen quickly earned the trust of Tom Brady upon the quarterback’s arrival to Tampa in March 2020, embracing Brady’s desire to keep footballs dry with towels and talcum powder. When Brady announced his return for a third season in Tampa only 40 days after a hasty retirement announcement, Jensen was the first free agent re-signed by the Bucs — on a three-year, $39 million deal. Brady has made no secret of his desire to have Jensen back on the field. “It’s a very important position. There’s a part of that that is very nice to know exactly what you’re dealing with,” the seven-time Super Bowl champion said Friday. “Sometimes it’s new and you’ve just got to deal [with it]. Every position deals with it. I think quarterback-center is naturally unique.” Times staff writer Rick Stroud contributed to this report. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.