SEFFNER — It was a kind of celebration, a small gathering at a Seffner duplex to wish happy birthday to a 15-year-old girl. There were about nine people in all. They stood in a line against a winter chill, each clutching a string that held a purple balloon. It was Nilexia Alexander’s favorite color. Her adoptive mother, Ashley Alexander, stood in the middle. She’d gathered the group of friends, relatives and Nilexia’s younger sister for the brief ceremony to honor her life and to make a gesture toward healing. Nilexia Alexander died in May, the victim of a homicide. At 14, she was one of the youngest killed amid an alarming rise in killings Tampa has seen in recent years. A troubled teen, she’d struggled with her mental health and conflicts at home and had run away several times. She’d been away 10 days when her mother saw a TV news story about a young female who’d been found shot to death in Tampa Heights. Police made two arrests. Ronny Tremel Walker faces a murder charge in Nilexia’s death. Robert Creed is accused of being an accessory to the crime. Prosecutions against both men remain pending. In the months since, her family has grappled with questions and further losses and a pain that at times seems insurmountable. Ashley Alexander still wonders: “What did my baby do to be gunned down like that?” In her grief, she has talked with other parents who have lost children to violence. One thing she has learned, she said, is a lesson in endurance. She says it’s important to fight for justice and to be a voice for the victims. “I’m definitely going to be my daughter’s voice,” she said. She has felt death as a constant presence since she lost her daughter. Weeks after she lost Nilexia, an acquaintance’s son also died by gunfire in Tampa. Not long after, she said, her sister’s brother-in-law was found dead in St. Petersburg. She lost an aunt last summer. In late December, she lost her grandmother. Her wake was Friday, Nilexia’s birthday. “It’s all around me,” she said. “Sometimes I think, ‘What is God trying to tell me? What is He trying to show me?’” For a while, she said, she turned to alcohol. But it didn’t make her problems vanish. She goes to therapy. Though the bad times are what haunt her, the counselor helps her to think of the good memories. She thinks of the girl at the beach, sweeping her arms and legs over the ground to make sand angels. She thinks of the girl who always wanted to eat the leftover batter from the bowl when they’d make brownies, and how she’d get her cheeks covered in chocolate. She thinks of the girl crawling into Mom’s bed, and stroking her hair while they watched movies. She’d usually start to get excited around Christmas time, her mother said, knowing her birthday — Jan. 13 — was soon to follow. Her mom would take her to dinner at a place of her choice. She’d always get a gift she’d wanted. Last year, when she turned 14, it was hair products — to add to her assembly of gels and sprays and combs and brushes. Ashley Alexander moved to a new home Dec. 1. Her old apartment in Temple Terrace carried too many memories, she said. The new place sits off a rolling country road in the shade of high trees with Spanish moss dangling from their branches. She reminds herself to breathe and to pray and to talk. She got a dog, a Yorkshire terrier and poodle mix named Brody. She still has her daughter’s ashes. Ashley Alexander had originally planned to scatter them in the ocean on her birthday. But as the date approached, she changed her mind. It seemed too soon to let her go, she said. “I don’t want to get rid of them just yet,” she said. She’ll wait, she said, at least until she reaches year 16, or maybe 18. In the front yard Sunday, those who knew Nilexia said a quick prayer. They asked God to surround her with angels, and said they knew they would get through this. In unison, they let go. They watched as 15 round balloons, and six more in the shape of stars, floated up, shrinking in the sunlight to tiny purple specks against the blue sky. In minutes, they were gone.