Tampa had its warmest year on record in 2022, the National Weather Service’s Tampa Bay office said in a recently released climate summary. Tampa had an average temperature of 76.4 degrees last year, a nearly 2-degree “departure from normal,” the report states. Now nine of Tampa’s top 10 warmest years have been within the last decade; the exception is the eighth warmest, which was in 1990. The previous hottest years were 2017 and 2020 when the average temperature was 76.3 degrees. The difference in temperature comes down to a tenth of a degree but the slight increase is in keeping with a steady upward trend, said Nicole Carlisle, a meteorologist with the Weather Service’s Tampa Bay office. “We’ve gone up about two and half degrees since 1891,” Carlisle said. “So, there’s just been a steady increase.” Carlisle said there are fluctuations every few years, but the trend has been for temperatures to increase little by little each year. Other cities in the Tampa Bay area and across Florida had some of their warmest years as well. St. Petersburg had its 12th warmest year at 75.4 degrees. Most temperatures across the area were at least 1 to 2 degrees above normal. The one anomaly was Tarpon Springs, which was nearly 1 degree below normal. The Weather Service’s Tampa Bay office also released a report on urbanization in our area. The report says urbanized areas of West Central and Southwest Florida have increased in temperature by about 2.5 to 3 degrees Fahrenheit over the last 100 years. Buildings, roads and other infrastructure absorb and re-emit the sun’s heat more than naturally occurring environments like forests or bodies of water, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. While the planet has experienced climate change before, like during the ice ages, overall global temperatures are increasing faster than the planet’s natural cycles, the Weather Service said. The global temperature has increased about 2 degrees since 1880, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The increase might seem small, the Administration said, but it’s a significant rise in accumulated heat. “That extra heat is driving regional and seasonal temperature extremes, reducing snow cover and sea ice, intensifying heavy rainfall, and changing habitat ranges for plants and animals — expanding some and shrinking others,” the Administration wrote in 2021. Rising heat comes with complications that affect daily life in Tampa Bay, including water supply, roads, jobs and health. A 2022 study that shows how heat will change over 30 years by First Street Foundation, a nonprofit that analyzes the country’s climate risk, found that Florida will have the largest increase of any state in the number of days when the heat index reaches at least 100 degrees. The National Weather Service said one of the biggest effects climate change will have in Florida is heat-related illnesses spurred on by hotter days. A 2021 study from the Tampa Bay Regional Planning Council said heat-related deaths in the Tampa Bay area would reach nearly 250 a year by 2030. In another 30 years, the number of heat-related deaths will rise to about 1,000 annually. The Weather Service’s summary comes just a few weeks after a cold snap over the Christmas holiday weekend dropped temperatures dramatically. The extreme dip caused December’s average temperatures across the area to be slightly below normal. It’s possible to have these instances of cold temperature, Carlisle said, even as average temperatures trend upward.