Someone could use this AP class DeSantis: AP African American Studies pushes agenda | Jan. 24 Gov. Ron DeSantis says that he does not see Black history as a separate history. I wonder how many other ethnic groups in the United States have experienced being kidnapped from their native lands, sold into slavery, counted as three-fifths of a person, suffered generations of Jim Crow laws and official segregation and untold years of discrimination. All “histories” do not appear to be equal. An Advanced Placement class in African American studies might enlighten him. Bruce LeBaron, St. Petersburg Agenda items DeSantis: AP African American Studies pushes agenda | Jan. 24 Well, if anyone can recognize a political agenda, it’s Gov. Ron DeSantis. Mary McAlister, Tampa Where the money is I’m Jeb Bush, and I support Florida’s new voucher plan | Column, Jan. 23 In response to former Gov. Jeb Bush’s column, I cannot help but point out that school choice and the need to send children to private schools would not be an issue if the state government properly funded all public schools. Schools that do not perform well are the ones that could benefit from more funding, and I believe that the voucher program proposed by Republicans is all part of their agenda to ruin public schools and place money into private schools at the taxpayers’ expense. Zach Land, Thonotosassa Certain unalienable rights Harris leads rally for abortion rights | Jan. 23 Vice President Kamala Harris should remember that the Declaration of Independence lists certain unalienable rights, among them, “life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness” — not just “liberty and the pursuit of happiness.” John Bottomley, Lutz Not just new teachers Education plan introduced | Jan. 24 Once again, Gov. Ron DeSantis is gaining headlines for education funding. However the funds would again be used to increase beginning teacher pay and nothing to increase salaries for our experienced teachers. Meanwhile, salaries and funding for education continue to be among the lowest in the United States. At the same time he is continuing to restrict the ability of unions to represent Florida’s teachers. Restricting unions from deducting dues from paychecks is not OK. It is only being done with the goal of reducing union membership. With everything teachers are being asked to do, requiring them to manually pay their dues monthly would be another slap in the face. Shelley Foster, Clearwater