ST. PAUL, Minn. — Lightning right wing Nikita Kucherov, who entered Thursday night as the NHL’s assist leader, has been named to his fourth career All-Star Game. The league announced its initial All-Star Game roster Thursday night, with the Hockey Operations Department selecting one player from each team to make up eight-player teams (seven skaters and one goaltender) for each of the four division teams for the game’s 3-on-3 tournament format. Three additional players — two skaters and one goaltender — will be added to each roster through a fan vote. Kucherov is no stranger to the All-Star Game spotlight. In the 2018 game played at Amalie Arena, he notched the first hat trick in the 3-on-3 tournament format in a 7-4 Atlantic Division semifinal win over the Metropolitan Division, a performance capped by his famous “no shot” goal. This season Kucherov has 41 assists in 37 games and is on track to best his career high of 87 set in his Hart Trophy-winning season, 2018-19. He also ranked fifth in the NHL in points with 54. This will be Kucherov’s first All-Star Game appearance since 2019. This year’s game will be held across the state at FLA Live Arena in Sunrise on Feb. 4 Under this year’s roster-selection format, which aims to give the fans more of a voice in selecting players for the game, fans can vote at nhl.com/vote until 11:59 p.m. Jan. 17. All-Star rosters The initial rosters for All-Star Weekend on Feb. 3-4 in Sunrise. One player from each team was announced Thursday, chosen by the NHL’s Hockey Operations Department. ATLANTIC DIVISION: F Nikita Kucherov, Lightning; G Linus Ullmark, Bruins; F Tage Thompson, Sabres; F Dylan Larkin, Red Wings; F Matthew Tkachuk, Panthers; F Nick Suzuki, Canadiens; F Brady Tkachuk, Senators; F Mitchell Marner, Maple Leafs. METROPOLITAN DIVISION: F Andrei Svechnikov, Hurricanes; F Johnny Gaudreau, Blue Jackets; F Jack Hughes, Devils; F Brock Nelson, Islanders; G Igor Shesterkin, Rangers; F Kevin Hayes, Flyers; F Sidney Crosby, Penguins; F Alex Ovechkin, Capitals. CENTRAL DIVISION: F Kirill Kaprizov, Wild; F Clayton Keller, Coyotes; F Jason Robertson, Stars; F Vladimir Tarasenko, Blues; D Seth Jones, Blackhawks; D Cale Makar, Avalanche; D Josh Morrissey, Jets; G Juuse Saros, Predators. PACIFIC DIVISION: F Matty Beniers, Kraken; F Kevin Fiala, Kings; F Nazem Kadri, Flames; F Connor McDavid, Oilers; F Elias Pettersson, Canucks; F Troy Terry, Ducks; D Erik Karlsson, Sharks; G Logan Thompson, Golden Knights. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.