How is this legal? These law firms have been paid at least $16.7 million to defend DeSantis’ culture wars | Dec. 22 “Four private law firms — each with deep connections to Republican Party politics — have been hired to defend the state, and the cost to Florida taxpayers is at least $16.7 million, according to a Tampa Bay Times/Miami Herald review...” I believe that this is an outrageous and blatant use of Floridians’ tax dollars as, effectively, a slush fund for a Ron DeSantis presidential campaign. All these cases being “defended” are DeSantis stunts to gain favor with the base who love to “own the libs.” I don’t mind whatever folks love to enjoy as their personal pastime, but please spend your own money to do so. Why is this legal? Where are the fiscal conservatives demanding an accounting? At the very least, it seems to me that it must be a violation of campaign finance laws. Lu Linder, Clearwater Get the booster and boost your odds Florida seniors need COVID-19 boosters | Editorial, Dec. 28 A huge number of people — Americans and Floridians ­— “took their chances with the variant” and lost. And a lot of them were older people. Carlos J. DeCisneros, TampaChildhood immunizations Make them retire Spare us a Trump-Biden rematch | Column, Dec. 26 Although I am not a fan of Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan and I very seldom finish reading her opinion pieces, I have to agree with her on this one. We should start applying the Florida law mandating Florida Supreme Court judges to retire at the ripe old age of 75 to all politicians. We would get a fresh crop every generation. What a novel idea. David Burg, Tampa Uplifting and automated Jetsons style robots | Dec. 26 I thoroughly enjoyed your article about Moxie the robot helping with pharmacy deliveries. As a retired nurse, I know it is a help to hospital staff. Kudos to your ”Merry Terry Christmas“ story as well (“Hornets’ Terry Rozier enjoys giving back and spreading hope to others”). I believe readers like uplifting content when so much news leaves one feeling hopeless. We can all make a difference. The Tampa Bay Times consistently shines a light on people helping others on many levels. Please keep it up. Sharon Scheiblein, Hudson