ST. PETERSBURG — Ole Miss junior C.J. Easley saw St. Petersburg Country Club from many angles this week while playing in the prestigious 97th annual New Year’s Invitational. That’s because Easley, admittedly, was spraying his tee shots. “I never got comfortable off the tee this week, not with driver, 3-wood or irons,” he said. “I did keep it in play, but I also put myself in some challenging situations.” Behind trees, under limbs, in bushes, on top of hills and deep in bunkers — you name it, Easley was there at one time or another. The good news for Easley was that he often followed those errant drives with spectacular second and third shots. Case in point was Sunday’s back-nine during the final round. Easley punched a 4-iron under a limb onto the par-4 11th green from 175 yards, got up and down from a deep-green bunker for par on the par-3 14th, ripped a 200-yard 6-iron from a downhill lie in the rough on the par-4 15th to within 15 feet, and punched a 200-yard 2-iron under a limb to the front of the 18th green to finish with a par. Ultimately, Easley, in his words, “found a way to get it done,” finishing the weather-shortened, three-round tournament at 8-under (67-69-72—208) to win by two strokes. Right behind Easley from the 111-man field were five runners-up: University of Cincinnati junior Ty Gingerich, Kent State sophomore Bryce Reed, Auburn junior Max Johnson, University of North Florida sophomore Cooper Smith and New Year’s  Invitational mid-amateur (25-and-older) winner Troy Vannucci. Easley said it was a satisfying ending to a sometimes frustrating previous year and a half without a victory. “It’s been a grind, for sure,” said Easley, who transferred from Auburn to Mississippi this past year to get closer to home (he grew up not far from the Ole Miss campus). “I’ve had some ups and downs, but I just kept grinding. “I know how to grind through things. Both my parents still work two jobs, and I see that and I think that has instilled in me this ability to work through things.” Easley, for instance, still works as a “maintenance man” in the summers at his home golf course in Mississippi. He wakes up 5:30 a.m. and often is on a mower cutting tee boxes and greens by 6. He finishes about 3 p.m., often covered in dirt and sweat, and only then does he go out and practice. “Honestly, I like that kind of work,” he said. “It’s good for me mentally. It keeps me grounded. I think that kind of work helps on days like (Sunday). You just keep grinding no matter what happens.” Like when his four-shot lead dwindled to two on Sunday’s back nine. “I just stayed in the moment and stuck to my routine,” Easley said. “I did a good job of that (Sunday). I think this week will really help me be a better player in the future. I think I definitely got better this week.”