If you are viewing this story via our mobile app and are unable to see videos and tweets, click here. Blaine Gabbert and Tom Brady have thrown touchdown passes as the Bucs lead the Falcons 17-10 in the third quarter of today’s regular-season finale at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. After a Devin White fumble recovery in Falcons territory gave the Bucs possession, Gabbert threw a 7-yard scoring pass to Russell Gage to put Tampa Bay ahead in the final minutes of the first half. Brady connected with tight end Kyle Rudolph on an 8-yard scoring pass on Tampa Bay’s opening possession. Ryan Succop added a 41-yard field goal in the second quarter. Falcons quarterback Desmond Ridder threw a 2-yard touchdown pass to Mycole Pruitt late in the first quarter. A Chris Godwin fumble set up Younghoe Koo’s 49-yard field goal later in the quarter. Locked into the No. 4 seed in the NFC regardless of today’s outcome, Tampa Bay (8-8) seeks a third consecutive win to give it some momentum heading into next week’s playoff opener at Raymond James Stadium. Follow our live updates throughout the game: Splash play A blitzing Devin White was in the right place at the right time when Falcons quarterback Desmond Ridder lost control of the ball before attempting a pass late in the first half. The Bucs linebacker scooped up the ball at the Atlanta 31 and returned it 9 yards to the 22. Blaine Gabbert replaced Tom Brady under center when Tampa Bay’s offense took the field with about four minutes remaining in the second quarter. A 13-yard pass from Gabbert to Deven Thompkins quickly moved the ball to the Atlanta 9. Giovani Bernard picked up 4 more yards to the 5. After an illegal shift penalty against Breshad Perriman pushed the Bucs back to the 10, a 3-yard pass to Russell Gage set up third and goal from the 7. Gabbert threw a back-shoulder fade to Gage for a touchdown, but the receiver appeared to injure his lower back on the play. Ryan Succop’s extra-point kick put the Bucs ahead 17-10 with 1:46 to play in the half. A matter of trust Despite Chris Godwin’s fumble on the previous possession, Tom Brady repeatedly went back to the Bucs receiver on a late first-quarter/early second-quarter drive that resulted in a tying field goal. Brady threw to Godwin three times for 24 yards on the drive, including a 9-yard completion to the Tampa Bay 43 on third and 1. Giovani Bernard also got some working on the drive, carrying four times for 19 yards. Ke’Shawn Vaughn rushed for 12 yards on a pitch around left end, and Russell Gage and Deven Thompkins each had 5-yard receptions. A holding penalty against Luke Goedeke nullified an 8-yard run by Bernard on fourth on 1 that would have given the Bucs a first down at the Falcons 6. Tampa Bay had to settle for Ryan Succop’s tying 41-yard field goal with 8:15 remaining in the second quarter. Change of fortune The Bucs suffered back-to-back blows late in the first quarter. First, center Robert Hainsey was ruled out for the game with a hamstring injury. Left guard Nick Leverett moved to center, and John Molchon went into the game to replace Leverett at guard. Then, receiver Chris Godwin fumbled after a 6-yard reception, giving the Falcons the ball at the Tampa Bay 34-yard line. But the Bucs defense held, yielding just 3 yards in three plays, and the Falcons were forced to settle for a 49-yard Younghoe Koo field goal and a 10-7 lead with just under a minute remaining in the first quarter. Bucs receiver Mike Evans also was ruled out for the game with an illness. On the board Desmond Ridder led the Falcons on a 91-yard drive on the Falcons’ second possession that ended with the rookie quarterback’s first NFL touchdown pass. Facing third and 5 from the Atlanta 14, Ridder found Drake London for 26 yards and a first down at the Falcons 40. A personal foul against Bucs cornerback Sean Murphy-Bunting on the next play gave the Falcons 15 more yards to the Tampa Bay 40. Tyler Allgeier carried twice over the right side for a combined 34 yards, moving the ball to the 6. After Ridder threw out of the end zone, Allgeier bounced his way to the 2. Ridder then scrambled to his right and threw to a leaping Mycole Pruitt for a tying touchdown with 3:22 to play in the first quarter. Can’t take advantage Defensive lineman Akiem Hicks got his first sack with Tampa Bay as the Bucs defense forced a three-and-out on the Falcons’ first opportunity with the ball. After an Atlanta punt, Tampa Bay had great field position, starting its second drive at its 45-yard line. But after Tom Brady threw to Leonard Fournette for 4 yards, he twice overthrew Russell Gage, resulting in a Tampa Bay punt. Quick start The Bucs drove 70 yards in 10 plays for a touchdown on their opening possession. With Tampa Bay starting at its 30-yard line, Rachaad White carried for 2 yards before Tom Brady found Chris Godwin, who made a toe-topping catch, along the right sideline for a 17-yard gain to the 49. Brady went back to Godwin for 8 more yards to the Atlanta 43. After White picked up the first down with a 3-yard run off right tackle, Deven Thompkins gained 17 on a reverse around right end to the 23. A Brady incompletion and 6-yard White run brought up third and 4 from the 17. Brady threw over the middle to tight end Cade Otton for 5 yards and a first down at the 12. White ran up the middle for 4 yards before Brady lofted a pass into the right corner of the end zone to Kyle Rudolph for an 8-yard touchdown, the 50th of Rudolph’s career. Brady completed four of five passes on the drive for 38 yards and a touchdown. Ryan Succop’s extra-point kick gave the Bucs a 7-0 lead with 9:47 remaining in the first quarter. Needs vs. wants The Bucs want a lot of things from today’s regular-season finale. Additional game reps. Momentum entering the playoffs. A healthy exit. What they don’t need: a win. Because they are locked in to the No. 4 seed in the NFC, the Bucs (8-8) can’t improve their positioning. In fact, the only thing left to play for is a winning record, and that will matter for, what, hours, days? before the records are reset (0-0) for the single-game elimination tournament that is the NFL postseason. That is the quandary facing coach Todd Bowles as he prepares his team for its final dress rehearsal before the playoffs: Does he rest his starters and risk a rusty performance in the wild-card game against the Cowboys or Eagles? Or does he play them and chance losing a key player for the more important games to follow? There are arguments to be made for both. But Bowles has one other thing to consider: What does Tom Brady want? The quarterback has been vocal over the past week about his desire to play in the game. It’s football season, he has said, and players are paid to play. More to the point, a player acutely aware of his legacy wants to avoid a losing regular-season record for the first time since he became a starting quarterback in 2001. Does it matter? Not really. Does it matter to Brady? Absolutely. And everything else flows from there. So, the Bucs will try to find a balance somewhere between approaching the game like an exhibition and playing the Falcons (6-10) as if the NFC South were on the line, though they sewed up the division title and home field for the wild-card game a week ago with a 30-24 victory over the Panthers. Best-case scenario, they jump out to an early lead, find some answers on offense, build some confidence and get their starters out of the game before anyone gets hurt. The Bucs are holding back some injured players. Tackle Donovan Smith, cornerback Carlton Davis, defensive tackle Vita Vea, wide receiver Julio Jones, safeties Logan Ryan and Mike Edwards, and linebacker Carl Nassib are inactive for the game. They’ll have to hope that list doesn’t grow any longer before the end of the day. Who’s in/who’s out Pregame scene More ways to follow us Follow our Bucs Instagram account at @TampaBayTimesBucs Follow our writers covering the game on Twitter at @NFLStroud, @TBTimes_Bulls, and @Romano_TBTimes. A little light reading Here’s some of our content leading up to today’s game: Bucs’ Tristan Wirfs is blocking out the noise Will patience pay off for Kyle Trask and the Bucs? After extended drought, takeaway total on the rise for Bucs defense Donovan Smith, Carlton Davis, Vita Vea out for Bucs Sit this one out? Not Tom Brady. ‘I’m ready to play’ Byron Leftwich gets defensive: ‘Everybody wants to throw dirt on the Bucs’ Ronde Barber a finalist again for the Pro Football Hall of Fame Several incentives linger for Bucs in regular-season finale vs. Falcons 3-touchdown effort earns Mike Evans NFC Offensive Player of the Week honor Blaine Gabbert, Kyle Trask could follow Tom Brady into game at Atlanta As playoffs loom, do Bucs match up better against Cowboys or Eagles? Without the no-huddle, the Bucs will be a no-hope playoff team Tom Brady says he ignored critics who claimed he should have stayed retired Bucs punter Jake Camarda says he doesn’t feel like a hero Bucs’ Todd Bowles: ‘We don’t need to take our foot off the gas’ • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.