Hit at just the wrong time Hit leaves Bills player in critical condition | Jan. 3 Along with millions of others, I was left aghast with what happened to Buffalo Bills’ player Damar Hamlin on Monday Night Football. But I, along with most other medical professionals, knew exactly what happened. He was hit in the chest at exactly the wrong time, and the collision caused an immediate interruption in the electrical conductivity of the heart — cardiac standstill and a “heart attack.” Players were devastated. ESPN and ABC could have done a better job rather than going on for a morbid hour, by having a medical expert explain what might have happened. It has occurred in other sports including softball and even T-ball when players are struck in the chest. I’m surprised that there aren’t more significant injuries in football. Players in the past have been paralyzed and had career-ending limb injuries. Many suffer concussions with subsequent chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Equipment has improved, but the violent hits keep coming. Dr. David Lubin, Tampa Hed goes here. Why George Santos’ lies matter | Column, Jan. 2 I find it very telling that Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan concludes her latest column with, “He is a bridge too far.  He is an embarrassment.” While there appears to be absolutely no doubt about that, where was she and the rest of the Republican enablers these past years in calling out Donald Trump for the same reason? Instead, she chastised Democrats for their “nihilism,” when it’s been the other party all along that wants to burn it all down. Time after time, the former president (and it pains me just to say that) embarrassed this country, both here and abroad, with his ignorance, misogyny, racism and boorish behavior. It sickens me that Trump’s still hovering about like a pesky house fly. The Republican Party needs to swat the both of them once and for all. Rick Sherin, Tampa A hero in deed ‘Citizen hero’ Blaine Gabbert recounts his role in Davis Islands helicopter rescue | Dec. 30 Blaine Gabbert, back-up quarterback of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, shows us once again what is important in life. His selfless rescue of victims of a helicopter crash was not for vainglory. He reacted to  those in need  because it was the right thing to do. Others could learn from him. Renee O. Goldman, Boca Raton A great playground In New Tampa, a playground for ‘every single body’  | Jan. 2 The new All Abilities Park in New Tampa is a wonderful addition to the community, for children of all abilities. Florida summers can be brutal and so the Rotary Club of New Tampa, through its foundation and through individual club members, contributed about $22,000 to purchase and install a water misting station. This effort was led by club member Peter Gambacorta. This is a marvelous example of how Rotary helps not only people and communities around the world, but also our own communities and its most precious residents. The Rotary Club of New Tampa was founded in 1995 and has served the New Tampa community and beyond through multiple fundraising events and service projects. Lesley S. Zajac, Tampa