Put it back on the shelf Pinellas schools remove book by prize-winning author Toni Morrison | Jan. 26 One parent of one student in one Advanced Placement Literature class objected to Toni Morrison’s The Bluest Eye being taught, and now this classic novel by a Nobel Prize-winning author has been removed from all Pinellas County schools. What planet am I living on? It’s interesting that this parent must have read the complex 19th century economic theories of Karl Marx so thoroughly that she can conclude that 21st century public schools are “Marxist training grounds.” One would have to be well versed in Marx’s works to make such an assessment, no? If, as this article indicates, school board member Stephanie Meyer’s sentiments really are that books are not banned, they’re just not available in schools, she should be encouraged to consult the American Library Association website to better understand that book banning equals removing books from classrooms and school libraries precisely so they are not available there. Pinellas County owes its students and the taxpayers who fund it a much sounder decision-making process. That can begin by restoring Morrison’s ingenious book to its schools’ bookshelves. It can continue by not following this travesty with another, then another and then another. Learning cannot prosper and progress cannot be made if our schools become bastions of anti-intellectualism. George D. Meyers, St. Pete Beach The best place for it Pinellas schools remove book by prize-winning author Toni Morrison | Jan. 26 Because one parent objected to Toni Morrison’s The Bluest Eye, Pinellas County schools have removed the book not only from classrooms but also from libraries. As a former high school English teacher, I’ve had to defend books that parents have deemed “harmful to minors.” These parents miss an important point. The classroom is the best place to tackle painful and challenging aspects of our human condition. A trained teacher handles these issues with expertise and care. Therefore, we don’t ban Jane Eyre because it deals with child abuse; we don’t ban The Great Gatsby because it deals with marital infidelity; we don’t ban The Bluest Eye because it deals with pedophilia. We grapple with issues together with our students as we try to understand the dark side of humanity through fictional characters who face them and attempt to overcome them in order to survive and even thrive. Sadly, some of our students experience humanity’s dark side in their own lives. Our books let them know they’re not alone. Anita Huenke, Clearwater Pro-life or anti-life? DeSantis suggests allowing death penalty in Florida without a unanimous jury | Jan. 25 Maybe someone can explain to me why the Legislature can ban abortions at 15 weeks because the Republicans are pro-life and at the same time Gov. Ron DeSantis and allies want to ease laws regarding capital punishment? If one is really “pro life” I would think they would be in favor of life in prison rather than death. Phil Altus, Tampa Thank a teacher Eyes open | Column, Jan. 25 I thoroughly enjoyed the guest column from high school teacher Chris Fulton. Critical thinking skills are in short supply in our 98% gray society, with too many of our leaders continually staking out positions that present issues as either the 1% black or the 1% white solution. I too strive to be awake (woke) and support leaders that unite and build and oppose those that seek to divide and tear down. Thank you, Mr. Fulton, for your perspective and dedication to teaching our kids to use their brains. Jeffrey Hunt, Oldsmar Prevent unwanted pregnancies Florida’s Catholic bishops: Advocacy for legal protection of life in the womb must continue | Column, Jan. 21 I think most people would agree that abortion is a terrible solution to a difficult problem. The difficult problem is unwanted pregnancy. God forbid we should expect people to curb their careless intentions regarding sex or even more expect them to use the many legal methods available to prevent conception. These are viable solutions for preventing pregnancy and therefore preventing the need for abortion. Remember, “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” Thomas Klein, Tampa Column made me mad Florida’s Catholic bishops: Advocacy for legal protection of life in the womb must continue | Column, Jan. 21 Reading the column by the Catholic bishops, co-authored by a number of “Most Reverends” (are there any “Least Reverends”?), makes me want to scream. Here we are again, reading opinions by celibate white men who want to control women. Mikos Lorand, South Pasadena