TAMPA — Like any inside linebacker worth his salt, Lavonte David used a technique that was sound, succinct and crisp. When asked why the nation seems so enamored with the Bucs-Cowboys rivalry, the 11-year veteran smiled, then tackled the question in five words. “Tom Brady and the star,” he said. Voila. While ESPN will opt for more bells, whistles and words to promote Monday night’s NFC wild-card matchup at Raymond James Stadium, does it need to? David pointed out the game’s primary elements clearly and in a condensed version. Brady against the ‘Boys. The 45-year-old star versus the five-pointed one. “America’s Team” facing America’s most successful quarterback. “As soon as I saw the (playoff) schedules, I knew that was going to be the Monday night game,” said William Sutton, a national sports marketing expert and director emeritus of the Vinik Sport & Entertainment Management Program at USF. “You’ve got Tom Brady versus the Dallas Cowboys. What a story. You’ve got to have it. And (Cowboys owner) Jerry Jones is great at amplifying it; I don’t think there’s anybody better.” For the third time since the start of the 2021 season, Tampa Bay and Dallas will square off. And for the third time, the game will be broadcast nationally at night. Their season-opening encounter Sept. 11 in Arlington, Texas — a 19-3 Bucs triumph televised by NBC — was the third-most-watched prime-time network TV show of the fall (23.3 million viewers), according to Nielsen. Their 2021 game on Sept. 9 — a 31-29 Bucs win highlighted by a Brady-led field-goal drive in the final seconds — was NBC’s most-watched NFL season opener since 2015, peaking at 25.4 million viewers. “You’ve got Tom Brady on our team, and they’ve got quote-unquote America’s Team,” David said. “They’ve got a team full of talent over there, and they’ve got an owner who loves the game of football. And then we’ve got Tom Brady, who’s the golden boy in this league and somebody who everybody wants to see.” It seems the Cowboys’ star power transcends futility. Dallas has two playoff victories in the last decade, yet remains the world’s most valuable sports team, worth $8 billion, according to Forbes, a distinction it has held since 2016. The jerseys of quarterback Dak Prescott, receiver CeeDee Lamb and edge rusher Micah Parsons were among the NFL’s 10 best sellers in 2022. The three have combined for fewer playoff wins (one) than Brady totaled in his first season in Tampa Bay (four). Sutton (a lifelong Steelers fan) credits Jones — also the team’s general manager and resident carnival barker — with capitalizing on the “America’s Team” label first applied by iconic NFL Films narrator John Facenda on the team’s 1978 highlight film. ESPN personality Stephen A. Smith also lauds Jones’ marketing and promotional chops, calling him “a phenomenal owner.” “What I appreciated most about him was, I thought he was the last person in the world that would like me,” said Smith, a popular, convenient target of Cowboys fans. “And then one time, maybe about six years ago, he showed up in attendance for (an advertising and media gathering) for ESPN and Disney. And at that time, I walked up to him to say hello. He said, ‘My buddy. I don’t give a damn what you say. All I know is this: You’re always talking about my Cowboys, and that’s good enough for me.’ " The Cowboys brand has flourished amid dynasties (three Super Bowl titles in four seasons in the 1990s) and dismal stretches (no playoff wins from 1998-2008), from Tony Dorsett to Tony Pollard. “When you have a brand like that — that people either love it or hate it and feel equally as strong — that’s what keeps it in the spotlight,” Sutton said. “I mean, I’m a Dallas Cowboy hater, so there’s as many Dallas Cowboy haters in the world as there are Dallas Cowboy lovers, and it just always keeps them in the forefront.” The forefront will be congested Monday night. Brady’s jersey also remains among the NFL’s 10 best sellers, and to TV advertisers it seems to elicit a sheen in the stadium lights. Monday’s game will be Tampa Bay’s sixth prime-time contest this season, equaling the combined number of night kickoffs the franchise had in the four years before his arrival in 2020. “I have a lot of respect for the (Cowboys) organization, their history; they have a lot of great players,” Brady said. “But all of it’s about three hours on Monday night. Everything’s going to come down to what we do those three hours — nothing in the past, nothing about the color jerseys we’re wearing.” Times staff writer Rick Stroud contributed to this report. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.