Well done Ageism is one form of bigotry that never seems to get old | Column, Dec. 30 In the ageism column by Gary Abernathy, he indicated that “older person” is preferable to being called “old.” He also didn’t like the term “senior citizen.” I’m in my 70s and may I suggest that the correct descriptive term is “seasoned”! Barb Kovats Tuttle, Temple Terrace Pick up after the party New Year’s fireworks It’s become a pretty cool tradition on July 4th and New Year’s Eve to fill the sky over our beaches with fireworks to celebrate the occasion, unfortunately that tradition doesn’t include cleaning up the debris — plastic and paper bits — left after the big blasts. Whether you’re a local or a visitor please help us keep our beaches beautiful by picking up the remnants of the New Year’s Eve spectacular in these first days of the new year. Cliff Van Leuven, Seminole Compare and contrast DeSantis administration investigating ‘A Drag Queen Christmas’ event in Broward | Dec. 29 Let’s do a side-by-side comparison of prime-time television shows, blockbuster movies and sold-out concerts with the Christmas drag show. Picture how the performers are dressed, how they perform and who is allowed to watch them. Now tell me, are we revoking liquor licenses and sanctioning all these other genres? Tamara Taylor, New Port Richey Parents’ rights, right? DeSantis administration investigating ‘A Drag Queen Christmas’ event in Broward | Dec. 29 Surely parents are cognizant of where they are taking their children. Appropriate or not, isn’t it the parents’ right? Isn’t that what Gov. Ron DeSantis promotes — parents’ rights? C. Wall, Oldsmar A pun time was had by all With inflation, can you really make a cheaper cheeseburger at home? | Dec. 28 Thank you for your lead story on cheeseburgers. Your writer Christopher Spata knows what is important. It was a fun read, as the rest of the world remains in a real pickle. Marla Sutton, Tierra Verde Shop around next time Flight emails questioned | Dec. 29 It cost $1.5 million to fly 49 refugees from San Antonio, Texas, to Martha’s Vineyard? That works out to $30,612 per passenger, one way. Considering that a first-class, round-trip flight from Orlando to Dubai on Emirates — one of the world’s most expensive airlines — is $21,571, I think our illustrious governor should shop around a bit more the next time he needs to buy plane tickets. Jeff Clark, Safety Harbor