Revelers out on the water for the Gasparilla celebration later this month might get a look at the latest addition to the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office’s fleet. The Sheriff’s Office recently put into service a 33-foot-long, $575,000 powerboat that Sheriff Chad Chronister called “a gamechanger.” One of the new boat’s big advantages over center-console vessels in the office’s 14-boat marine unit fleet is the enclosed, climate controlled cabin, Chronister said Tuesday at a news conference at Port of Tampa Bay. Chronister noted his office runs the only 24-hour marine unit in the Tampa Bay area, and the cabin will keep deputies dry and comfortable during oppressive summer days and cold winter nights. “It’s an incredible asset to the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office,” Chronister said as he stood on a dock with the new boat bobbing behind him. “And not just the Sheriff’s Office ... but the entire region because this boat can respond anywhere, anytime and in any type of weather conditions, all while allowing our deputies to work that much longer and that much more efficient because they’re protected from the elements now.” The boat, manufactured by SAFE Boats International in Seattle, is powered by three 300-horsepower Yamaha outboard engines that can push it to a little more than 60 mph, or about 52 knots, according to the Sheriff’s Office. It features a wrap-around flotation collar with hand-hold lines on both sides from bow to stern to give people in the water something to hold on to during water rescues. “Unlike a center console or something where we have to try to open up a dive door and conduct a rescue, here you’ll see the ropes and the way they’re designed around this flotation collar, they can grab on,” Chronister said. The purchase was funded by an appropriations project request through the Florida Legislature. Among other things, appropriation requests are made through bills filed by lawmakers for specific local projects to be funded by the state’s general fund. Chronister credited former House Speaker Chris Sprowls for helping to secure the funding for the boat. Sprowls said the money paid for an asset that will help bolster safety and security for the entire Tampa Bay region including the Port of Tampa Bay. “There are billions and billions of dollars of economic development that travel in and out of this port every day and the security is done by Sheriff Chronister and the men and women of the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office,” Sprowls said.