ST. PETERSBURG — Soon, cars won’t be able to travel northbound and southbound across Fifth Avenue N at four intersections in west St. Petersburg. That’s because the Florida Department of Transportation is repaving and resurfacing 5 miles of the Alternate U.S. 19 route to make the road more pedestrian friendly, with added crosswalks and new sidewalks. At four intersections, new medians will be installed with cutouts for bicycles and pedestrians to cross northbound and southbound, but cars will have to use side streets or make U-turns. The project stretches from Sixth Street N to 55th Street and will cost from $12 million to $15 million. Construction is expected to begin in the fall or early 2024 and take about 10 months to a year to complete. No road closures are expected, as inside lanes in both directions will be redone first, followed by outside lanes. City officials say the change will help calm traffic in surrounding neighborhoods while connecting them and easing traffic stress for bicyclists. According to a city presentation, a Florida Department of Transportation traffic crash analysis found 1,184 crashes, including six fatalities and 38 incapacitating injury crashes, happened on Fifth Avenue N between Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street and Tyrone Boulevard between 2014 and 2018. Fifth Avenue will have new concrete medians at 22nd, 40th, 46th and 55th streets that are closed to northbound and southbound car traffic, but will have cutouts for bicycles and pedestrians. Cars will also not be able to make left turns into neighborhoods or onto Fifth Avenue at those intersections. The project also includes installing seven overhead beacons, similar to the ones used for the Pinellas Trail near Tropicana Field on 16th Street, with marked crosswalks, pedestrian signals, push buttons and curb ramps at 22nd, 25th, 27th, 40th, 45th, 46th and 55th streets. The project also includes installing a traffic separator between eastbound and westbound traffic near the Interstate 375 on-ramp and speed tables and pedestrian raised crosswalks in front of St. Anthony’s Hospital. Bicycle lanes in each direction will be added from Sixth Street to 20th Street. In an email, city Transportation and Parking Management Director Evan Mory said there isn’t enough room to include a full-width bike lane from 20th Street to Tyrone Boulevard, and a shared lane for bicycles and cars isn’t safe because of the drastic difference in speed. Mory said the city has identified Seventh Avenue N, Third Avenue N and Burlington Avenue as alternative, parallel routes for bicyclists.