TAMPA — Ronde Barber joined a crowded list of defensive backs as a finalist for the Pro Football Hall of Fame. It is the third straight year as a modern-day finalist for Barber and his sixth year of eligibility; he has been at least a semifinalist (top 25) each year. Barber isn’t alone in this star-studded group of defensive backs. The list includes former Jets, Bucs and Patriots defensive back Darrelle Revis and former Cowboys safety Darren Woodson. That could make it tough again for Barber since electors like to spread the wealth in any given class among position groups. Barber is a member of the 2000s all-decade team. He carved a special niche in the NFL in his old position at slot cornerback, becoming the only player in league history to record at least 45 interceptions and at least 25 sacks (47 interceptions, 28 sacks). He also produced the most iconic play in franchise history — a 92-yard interception return in a win at Philadelphia in the NFC Championship Game. He was a big part of a Bucs defense that has already seen linebackers Derrick Brooks, defensive tackle Warren Sapp and safety John Lynch be enshrined. Other finalists include Vikings defensive lineman Jared Allen, Colts offensive tackle Willie Anderson, Colts defensive end Dwight Freeney, Bears kick returner Devin Hester, Colts receiver Torry Holt, Texans receiver Andre Johnson, Chiefs and Raiders defensive back Albert Lewis, Browns left tackle Joe Thomas, Miami linebacker Zach Thomas, Cowboys linebacker DeMarcus Ware, Colts receiver Reggie Wayne and 49ers linebacker Patrick Willis. Finalists in the modern-era player category were determined by a vote of the Hall’s selection committee from the list of 129 nominees named in September that was reduced to 28 semifinalists on Nov. 22. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.