ATLANTA — The future may have arrived with just more than eight minutes remaining in the game Sunday when Kyle Trask trotted onto the playing field against the Falcons and officially began his NFL career. The former Florida Gators star has managed to remain a fan favorite for some ever since he was drafted by the Bucs with the final pick of the second round in 2021. But Trask had only been active in a regular-season game one other time, against the Ravens in October, but had never taken a snap from center. “It was fun,” Trask said after Sunday’s 30-17 loss. “That was my first-ever real reps in a real game. Obviously, the circumstances are we already made the playoffs and there’s the reason. But it was still fun. It was a real game, just to get out there and make a couple throws and, you know, I really enjoyed it.” Trask’s official line reads 3 of 9 passing for 23 yards, no touchdowns or interceptions. His passer rating was a forgettable 42.4. The Bucs started Tom Brady and played him until about five minutes left in the first half. He gave way to Blaine Gabbert, who threw a touchdown pass to Russell Gage. By the time Trask replaced Gabbert, the Falcons had scored 17 of their 20 unanswered points in the second half. But Trask said he felt prepared for his debut. “I saw everything just fine,” Trask said. “Obviously, the preseason is a different animal. There’s a lot of guys you don’t have a lot of chemistry with. This late in the season, I feel like you have at least a little bit of chemistry with all the receivers here. You’ve been throwing them routes on air all season and scout team — whatever it may be. ... “It was fun to get out there in a real game and put it on tape.” Did Trask get any pointers from Brady and Gabbert before entering Sunday’s game? “Be smart with the ball,” Trask said. “Some certain looks they wanted me to check to certain plays. They gave me a few pointers but really said, ‘You’re going to see everything and be just fine.’ I went out there and luckily they were right. I saw everything and I just played football out there and had fun.” His first two passes Sunday were incomplete to Deven Thompkins and the Bucs went three-and-out. On his next try, he hit Scotty Miller for 8 yards and Breshad Perriman for 9. He missed Miller and Perriman on two other attempts and connected with running back Giovani Bernard for 6 yards, and that was about it. But Trask played in a regular-season game, completed a few passes. After two seasons, that mattered Sunday. “You’ve got to stayed ready. That’s just what I always do,” he said. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.