Toni: I have a quite different problem concerning how to enroll in Medicare from any enrollment problem that I have read in your column. I understand from an email a friend received from Medicare.gov that starting January 1, there are new turning-65 Medicare enrollment rules. I have rheumatoid arthritis and my prescriptions are expensive. I turn 65 on February 20 and need my Medicare to begin May 1; my husband is retiring and losing his company benefits as of that date. I am a non-working spouse and do not have enough work quarters to receive Medicare on my own. I do not know how to apply using my husband’s Medicare benefits. What do I do? - Mary Ann, Hempstead, Texas Mary Ann: On November 17, 2022, Medicare did send out an email saying that there are changes to enrolling in Medicare when turning 65, beginning January 1, 2023. The change involves the start date of your Medicare Part B coverage, which now begins the first day of the month after you sign up, if you sign up during the last three months of your Initial Enrollment Period (IEP). (Before this change, if you signed up during the last three months of your IEP, your Medicare Part B coverage started two to three months after you enrolled.) It is so important to plan to be sure that you are enrolling in Medicare correctly, Mary Ann. Because you are short the 40 quarters of working and paying taxes to qualify under your Social Security number for your Medicare, you will have to qualify under your husband’s Social Security number for your Medicare (assuming he has the 40 quarters to qualify). Call your local Social Security office or Social Security’s main number at (800) 772-1213 to arrange an appointment, either over the phone or at a local Social Security office, and ask how to apply under your husband’s work record. You will need an original certified marriage license to show Social Security that you are currently married. Set up a www.ssa.gov account prior to talking with a Social Security representative. Social Security will want you to enroll in Medicare online by visiting www.ssa.gov/benefits/medicare. You may go online and enroll in Medicare while talking with the representative that is guiding you through this process. Because you are short of the 40 work quarters, the process is a bit more complicated than for someone who is turning 65 and applying using their own benefits. (Chapter 1 of my Medicare Survival Guide Advanced edition explains enrolling in Medicare in detail.) Medicare’s IEP is the 7-month period which occurs 3 months before turning 65, the month you turn 65 and 3 months after turning 65. Here is a summary of the Medicare Initial Enrollment Period 7-month timeline schedule: If enrolling anytime 3 months before turning 65, your Medicare begins the first day of the month you turn 65. In Mary Ann’s case, since she will turn 65 on February 20, she can enroll in Medicare Parts A and/or B in November, December, or January (the 3 months prior period) for a February 1 effective date. Mary Ann, since you want your Medicare to begin May 1, I would advise you to enroll in Medicare in April, and that is when you would want to schedule your appointment with Social Security to explain your enrollment situation of not having enough quarters. Toni King is an author and columnist on Medicare and health insurance issues. She spent more than 27 years as a top sales leader in the field. For a Medicare checkup, email: info@tonisays.com or call 832-519-8664. You can now visit www.seniorresource.com/medicare-moments to listen to her Medicare Moments podcasts and get other information for boomers/seniors.