After months of looking and a restarted search, the University of South Florida on Monday announced its pick for a new provost: Prasant Mohapatra, vice chancellor of research at the University of California, Davis. Mohapatra is a professor of computer science who holds eight patents and has conducted research in the fields of wireless networks, mobile communications and cybersecurity. He also has held other leadership positions at UC Davis, including dean, vice provost and chief information officer roles. He will start at USF on March 1. In a letter announcing the selection, USF President Rhea Law said Mohapatra’s vision and experience made him a good fit for the university. “When I became president, I said that one of my first and most important priorities was the selection of our next provost — a decision I did not take lightly,” said Law, who was hired last March and was formally inaugurated at a ceremony on Thursday. “Throughout our national search, including last fall after we brought the first four finalists to USF for campus visits, we remained committed to continuing with the process until we found the best possible fit for USF.” The provost is the highest-ranking academic officer at the university. The search began last May after former provost Ralph Wilcox, who served in the role since 2008, announced his retirement. An 18-member committee working with the Storbeck Search firm yielded four finalists, including Eric Eisenberg, former dean of the USF College of Arts and Sciences, who served as interim provost. But after the finalists’ visits to campus, Law said she wanted to continue the search and moved Eisenberg to a cabinet-level position focused on community partnerships. “Dr. Mohapatra brings significant experience and knowledge to USF as we advance toward our goal of becoming a top 25 public institution,” John Ramil, chairperson of the search committee and former member of USF Board of Trustees, said in a news release. “I am confident that under Dr. Mohapatra’s leadership, USF will continue to reach new levels of academic excellence.” In the release, Mohapatra said he looked forward to helping the university achieve its “strategic goals and aspirations.” “As I learned about this opportunity,” he said, “I became deeply impressed with how the university is transforming the lives of its students, addressing some of society’s most challenging issues through high-impact faculty research and serving the Tampa Bay region with its commitment to strong community partnerships.”