TAMPA — He’s hardly pulling up to the postseason on fumes. William Gholston, a Bucs elder statesman in the waning stage of a one-year deal, lately has performed like a spry veteran with a second wind. “Hell yeah, actually,” the dean of the defensive-line room said when asked if any figurative fuel remains in his reservoir. “I think I’ve got a whole bunch of premium 93 in the tank, not 87.” Still, some noticeable tread exists on this Bucs defense, and it’s difficult not to consider who might be playing their last game in pewter Monday night. Gholston’s 31. Tackle Akiem Hicks, also on a one-year deal, turned 33 in November. Lavonte David, who tied fellow inside linebacker Devin White for the regular-season team lead in tackles (124), turns 33 later this month. Safety Logan Ryan hits 32 in February. “When I came into the league, one of my vets told me, ‘Don’t count the reps, make the reps count,’” Gholston said. “And I try to play like that all the time.” That philosophy continues serving Gholston well in the final stretch of his 10th season. Still a steady cog on the front end of Todd Bowles’ 3-4 scheme, Gholston’s 49 tackles are tied for the second-most in his career. Three of his four tackles for loss have come in the last three games, a stretch that also featured a fourth-quarter fumble recovery in an overtime win in Arizona on Christmas night. But perhaps more significantly, he remains arguably the team’s consummate complementary player, occupying blockers with his 6-foot-6, 281-pound body, setting the edge inside, springing peers such as David and White, and providing cheeseburgers to the defensive linemen nearly every Wednesday. “Will’s been our steady Eddie down there,” Bowles said. “Obviously (he) plays solid defense for us, but him getting his hands on balls and causing disruption, getting other guys plays has been big for us going down the stretch.” The disruption often doesn’t appear in a statistic. A fourth-round pick out of Michigan State in 2013, Gholston has carved a career out of what he deems “grunt work” that others deem far more priceless than thankless. “He’s always getting penetration and disrupting the play, making the running backs stutter, so that somebody can get a tackle for loss,” said outside linebacker Anthony Nelson, enjoying a breakthrough season (46 tackles, 5-1/2 sacks, three forced fumbles) after being thrust into every-down duty by injuries. “Things like that that don’t show up on the stat sheet, but he’s setting up a lot of guys every game and every week.” The contributions keep transcending three-point stances. In December, Gholston was announced as his team’s nominee for the Walter Payton NFL Man of the Year Award, a nod to his annual local efforts to combat food insecurity and breast cancer. In 2021 alone, Gholston, who lost his father and uncle to cancer and watched his mom conquer breast cancer, donated $225,000 to Moffitt Cancer Center’s George Edgecomb Society to support research of cancers that disproportionately affect Black men and women. “He’s a highly respected person,” sixth-year defensive end Pat O’Connor said. “He’s a vet among vets.” And still at full-throttle. “He’s occupying bodies, knocking them back, putting them into the running backs,” Nelson said. “That doesn’t show up in the stat sheet, but he does a really good job.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.