TAMPA — The quarterbacks coach who has been getting the Bengals’ Joe Burrow ready for Sunday’s AFC Championship Game against the Chiefs took time away from those preparations to interview for the Bucs’ offensive coordinator position. Dan Pitcher met virtually with Bucs head coach Todd Bowles and general manager Jason Licht on Friday. Pitcher has spent seven seasons with the Bengals, but his promotion to quarterbacks coach came as Cincinnati made Burrow the first overall pick of the 2020 draft. Pitcher is the fourth candidate interviewed by the Bucs to replace the fired Byron Leftwich. Jaguars passing game coordinator Jim Bob Cooter, Vikings receivers coach Keenan McCardell and Broncos quarterbacks coach Klint Kubiak met with Tampa Bay earlier this week. After a torn ACL ended Burrow’s rookie season, he went 22-10 as the Bengals’ starter over the past two seasons and is making his second straight appearance in the AFC title game. The Bengals lost to the Rams 23-20 in Super Bowl 56. The Bucs also plan to meet with Giants quarterbacks coach Shea Tierney. New York quarterback Daniel Jones made a big leap in his development this season, leading his team to a wild-card playoff win over the Vikings while setting career bests in passing yards, completion percentage, fewest interceptions and passer rating. Jones’ improvement was so profound that the Giants will likely either use the franchise-player tag or sign him to a long-term deal. Much of the credit will go to New York head coach Brian Daboll or offensive coordinator Mike Kafka, and rightfully so. But don’t overlook Tierney, who was instrumental in cutting down Jones’ turnovers this season. “Our relationship has been great,” Jones told N.J.com of Tierney. “I’ve learned a ton from him. He knows this system inside and out, and early on he was so detailed and so sharp about everything about it down to the smallest details.” While Tom Brady  remains undecided about his football future and will become a free agent. Tierney would be a good candidate to develop Florida’s Kyle Trask, currently the only quarterback on the Bucs’ roster. Tierney worked at Alabama with Daboll, who left his job as the Patriots tight ends coach to become offensive coordinator under Nick Saban. The Crimson Tide won the national title that season (2017), and Daboll took Tierney with him when he went to Buffalo as the Bills’ offensive coordinator. Tierney spent two seasons there as an offensive assistant before being promoted to assistant quarterbacks coach under Ken Dorsey, the former University of Miami quarterback. A lot of good offensive coordinators and even head coaches in the NFL were primarily backup quarterbacks in the NFL. Among them: Dorsey, Bengals head coach Zac Taylor and Vikings head coach Kevin O’Connell. Tierney was a backup quarterback as well but never progressed to that status beyond Neshaminy High School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. His first job was as a student coach at Lackawanna Community College in Scranton, Pennsylvania, before heading to North Carolina State to work under offensive coordinator Dana Bible and head coach Tom O’Brien. Tierney hooked up with Ed Marynowitz, who was an assistant pro scouting director for the Eagles, at the Music City Bowl in Nashville. When Marynowitz became the associate athletics director for football at Alabama, Tierney followed him there, beginning his association with Daboll. The Giants were fifth in the NFL in rushing yards per carry this season, averaging 4.8. Bucs head coach Todd Bowles fired Leftwich primarily because his team was last in rushing attempts (386) and rushing average (3.4 yards per carry). • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.