When the Florida Legislature, whose motto is: “Good Governance Is Highly Overrated,” begins its annual palm greasing in March one can rest assured it will immediately take up a measure dear to the heart of Gov. Ron DeSantis. What might that be? Better schools? Higher pay for teachers. True insurance reform that doesn’t impoverish homeowners? Criminal justice reform? Environmental preservation? Oh puleeze, don’t be so silly! All that stuff actually might require work. It might require doing something that benefits the citizenry. It might — dare we even whisper it — require acting like real adults. Oh the heresy of it all. Instead, the denizens of Tallahassee will pass a bill essentially doing away with any remote semblance of reasonable gun control in this state by allowing gun owners to carry firearms in public without the irritation of having to obtain a permit. And thus, the hills will be alive with the sound of AR-15s to settle disputes over parking spaces, or loud music, or because a spouse put too much tabasco in the meat loaf. What used to the resolved with a few well-chosen F-bombs could now result in body bags. But don’t worry. As you know from watching last November’s gubernatorial election commercials, you are aware of a spot the Elmer Gantry of the GOP ran that suggested Ron DeSantis was sent here to become the governor of Florida, by God herself. Humility, it’s a helluva thing. Yep, the Father Coughlin of Florida really does believe he is God’s gift. Well, ahem, thanks a bunch. Of course, just a pinch of irony abounds. The same state that gave us 49 murders in the Pulse nightclub shooting and 17 more murders in the Parkland school shooting now thinks it is a great idea to make it easier for unhinged Billy Bob goobers to publicly carry firearms without a permit. Do you think there might be a hit Broadway play in here somewhere? “The Book of Moron”? The DeSantis Axis of Asininity wants to allow every Floridian to lock and load whenever and wherever they please. But the governor cannot bear the thought of students in school being remotely exposed to any book that might mention a LGBTQ character. It’s entirely possible this governor and his legislative gofers have more tender sensibilities than Shirley Temple stumbling on to the set of “Reservoir Dogs.” Load up your Glock and prance around a mall, but if you are a Florida history educator don’t even think about teaching critical race theory, which simply makes the case (quite accurately, by the way) that this country has a deeply racist past. Duh! Ron DeSantis doesn’t want to hear it. The Florida Legislature, with more than its fair share of Civil War revisionist history types who still insist slavery was merely a lifestyle choice, doesn’t want to hear it. Suggest, especially if you are a doctor, who, you know, knows about doctor stuff, and you argue there is a potentially fatal virus that can kill you, which can be averted by taking a couple vaccine shots. Why before you can say ”Anthony Fauci” you will be vilified and dismissed and threatened and sent into exile. But belly up to the gun range, Festus. Try on this bandoleer. It will look great in church this weekend. Here is what will likely happen in March. The tree sloths that populate the Florida Legislature will introduce the “Open Season On Humans” bill. And soon law enforcement officials will show up begging the House and Senate to please, please, please, don’t pass this piece of legislative roadkill. They will note having a society awash in weapons will make their jobs even more difficult. They will be ignored. The bill will pass. The badges, what do they know? Down the road a bit when DeSantis and fellow NRA pawns run for higher offices, they will claim how much they just love law enforcement. They will promote themselves with all manner of claptrap as law and order crusaders. God knows they are lying liars, who lie about public safety. And you know it, too.