ST. PETERSBURG — Mayor Ken Welch made the biggest decision of his political career on Monday, selecting the team led by the Tampa Bay Rays to redevelop Tropicana Field. With the selection, Welch sought to remake history, both trying to keep the Rays in St. Petersburg after their threats to leave and to repay the mostly Black community that was plowed over to build a stadium and court baseball by building a new district that creates jobs and offers affordable homes. “The process was detailed and transparent, and as your Mayor, I have done my homework.” Welch said. “I am confident that this decision is the best path forward. “We’re engaged and hope to be married very soon,” the mayor said in a news conference after the announcement. Welch made the announcement at the end of his highly anticipated state of the city address Monday morning. Then the 40-piece marching band from his alma mater Lakewood High School began playing the 1978 hit “Got to be Real” by Cheryl Lynn. The Rays made their pitch as part of a joint proposal to rebuild Tropicana Field and the 86 acres it sits on with international real estate investment and development group Hines. They plan to build a senior living facility, a 40,000 square feet of conference space in the ballpark facility and a new Woodson African American Museum of Florida right at the development’s entryway on Booker Creek, plus a $10 million donation. It also includes a new stadium. While Welch’s decision paints a brighter future for Major League Baseball in St. Petersburg, terms that would keep the Rays playing home games there must be worked out in a separate agreement. They could continue looking at other locations. “I don’t see that happening,” Welch said during his news conference. “They’ve done their research. They put together a heck of a team, Heck of a plan.” The Hines/Rays proposal offered the most money to the city for development rights with an aggressive timeline that would guarantee a new ballpark by the 2028 home opener. Rays president Brian Auld, Hines’s senior managing director Michael Harrison and spokesperson Rafaela Amador were in attendance as Welch made his announcement. “It feels great. It feels great,” Auld said. “We were really proud of what we put together and because we have such tremendous respect for the Mayor and his staff that validated all the hard work and trust us to lead this forward means the world to us.” The Rays have been calling for construction of a new stadium 15 years ago, first proposing an outdoor venue with a sail-like roof on the St. Petersburg waterfront. They have since appeared to focus on Tampa, saying a location more at the center of the region’s population would attract bigger crowds for a team that routinely ranks near the bottom in attendance. Tampa Mayor Jane Castor repeated a line she uses often, that her main goal has been to ensure that the team stays in the region, while nodding to the on-again, off-again nature of past negotiations. “There is a lot of work still to do,” she said. “Tampa remains a great option for the team and we’re keeping our door open and pencil sharpened for the due diligence on any potential Rays stadium proposal in Tampa.” The mayor passed on three other developer groups, including what appeared to be the Rays’ main competitor: Sugar Hill Community Partners. The group, led by San Francisco-based JMA Ventures, had spent the last two years rallying community support, including among Black pastors, and promising that half of its residential units would be for affordable and workforce housing. Sugar Hill was a runner-up in the previous redevelopment bidding contest under former mayor Rick Kriseman. “We want to thank our team members and friends who have worked tirelessly on this pursuit for more than two years, as well as the residents of St. Pete who have been so consistently generous with their time and feedback,” Sugar Hill said in a statement. “We have great affection for the St. Pete community and hope that the true promise of the Historic Gas Plant District site is finally realized.” Two other bidders, 50 Plus 1 Sports of Miami, committed to using minority-owned businesses, and Tampa-based Restoration Associates, backed by local physician and philanthropist Kiran Patel, also submitted bids. City staff and an independent consultant said their plans lacked details and proven financial ability to do the work. Monday’s event was open to the public. A city spokeswoman said proposers would not find out who was selected ahead of time. Sugar Hill representatives, including development manager David Carlock were also in the crowd when Welch shared his decision. Welch’s first year in office centered around him tossing out the bids and selection made by his predecessor and then seeking new offers. He said he thought the prior offers didn’t do enough to “make a dent” in the city’s affordable housing crisis and racial economic disparities. He said he was seeking to also honor the historically Black Gas Plant community razed to make way for a stadium decades ago. Welch campaigned on a platform of racial equity and doing good on broken promises made to Black residents. His state of the city address was held on the steps of City Hall with all the fanfare he never got when he was sworn into office last year. With bleachers set up and performances teeing up his speech, the event compensated for a public inauguration he missed out on because he caught COVID in January 2021. A “free speech” zone was set up for demonstrators. A press conference held by Faith in Florida, a faith-based racial, economic, environmental and social justice group, was planned at 2 p.m. to persuade Welch to keep all 86 acres of the development publicly owned. City Council member Richie Floyd is expected to be in attendance. Welch’s announcement is just the beginning of a years-long process that will include detailed negotiations, City Council votes and public input. City officials have said they hope to negotiate with the Rays for an agreement that would keep them at Tropicana Field for years to come before they commit to a broader development agreement. This is a developing story. Check back for updates.