TAMPA — After more than 30 years in the NFL as either a player or coach, Todd Bowles doesn’t astound easily. But the improvised, improbable and ultimately impermissible punt by rookie Jake Camarda in Sunday’s waning moments left even Bowles dazzled. “I have never seen a punter make an athletic play like that,” the 59-year-old coach said. “No, I really haven’t.” Facing fourth and 10 at the Panthers 44 with 42 seconds remaining, Camarda mishandled a one-hop snap by Zach Triner, scooped it up as the Panthers rushers closed in, scrambled to his left and got off a punt near the Carolina sideline. The ball rolled inside the 5-yard line, where Zyon McCollum downed it, but the Bucs were whistled for having an ineligible player downfield. For an encore, Camarda lofted the ensuing attempt high, forcing a fair catch at the Panthers 8. The game ended three plays later with the Panthers futilely trying a series of laterals before left tackle Ikem Ekwonu was taken down. “I guess that’s why you draft an athletic punter,” linebacker Lavonte David said. “He definitely saved us a little bit with the (punt).” A streak of strip-sacks Bereft of edge-rushing depth for the third consecutive game, the Bucs got a performance equally tireless and timely from fourth-year outside linebacker Anthony Nelson. The 6-foot-7 former backup strip-sacked Sam Darnold at his own 3-yard line with 2:24 to play in the fourth quarter, his third forced fumble in four games and second strip-sack in as many contests. Vita Vea recovered, and Tom Brady followed with a 1-yard scoring sneak with 1:58 to play, giving the Bucs a 30-21 lead. “Unreal,” said right tackle Tristan Wirfs, Nelson’s former teammate at Iowa. “He was a freak. ... He was awesome (Sunday). I was so happy for him. He came up huge.” Thrust into a starting role by a series of injuries at outside linebacker, Nelson has played every defensive snap the last three contests after making only four starts his first three seasons. “Exhausted,” Nelson said following Sunday’s triumph. “But it’s always a little better when you win and clinch your division. I mean, I’m good. I’m happy. We fought for that win.” His stat line during that three-game stretch: 12 tackles, two strip-sacks, three quarterback hits. “He looks innocent, but underneath it all, he’s a heck of a football player,” Bowles said. “He’s a gangly looking guy, and he’s got a little swag to him that you don’t know about, so we have a lot of confidence in him.” By the numbers 5 Consecutive games with at least 30 completions by Tom Brady, who became the first player in NFL history to achieve the feat 10 Games this year in which Brady has completed at least 30 passes, also a first for a single season in NFL history 13 Length (in yards) of Julio Jones’ third-quarter end-around run, the Bucs’ longest rushing attempt of the day 74 Rushing yards totaled by the Panthers in Sunday’s loss 320 Rushing yards totaled by the Panthers in their 14-point win against the Lions the previous weekend Audible “I’ve got 1% milk and I’ve got a bag of Chips Ahoy cookies. That’s my go-to.” — Bowles, when asked how he’ll celebrate the Bucs’ division title • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.