TAMPA — Mike Evans arrived for Sunday’s critical Bucs game against the Panthers wearing a throwback No. 23 North Carolina basketball jersey. The Michael Jordan tribute was a gift from fellow wide receiver Chris Godwin, who drew Evans’ name in a secret Santa gift exchange. Having scored only three touchdowns this season and none since Week Four, Evans, a Pro Bowl receiver, hadn’t received much airtime from quarterback Tom Brady. He was still stewing about the touchdown pass he dropped in the first game against Carolina, a 21-3 loss Oct. 23 in Charlotte. Things didn’t start well Sunday as Evans broke in the clear but had a deep pass from Brady bounce off his chest and fall incomplete. The Bucs dug themselves a 14-0 hole midway through the second quarter and trailed 21-10 10 seconds into the fourth. But when he was needed most, Evans found a way to soar, catching 10 passes for 207 yards and three touchdowns from Brady in the Bucs’ 30-24 win at Raymond James Stadium. The victory allowed the Bucs (8-8) to clinch their second straight NFC South title and earned them at least a chance to host a wild-card playoff game. Evans’ scoring catches were 63, 57 and 30 yards, the first of which allowed him to eclipse 1,000 yards receiving in each of his nine NFL seasons. The last one gave the Bucs the lead for good in the fourth quarter, capping a performance that would be worthy of Jordan. “Yeah, (Evans) was going crazy,” Godwin said. “I didn’t know he wore (the jersey), honestly, because I didn’t see him walk in and I just saw him walk out with it. So that’s dope. Very Jordanesque. I like it.” The Bucs loved what they saw from Brady, who stood tall in the pocket, took some shots, was sacked three times but still gave Evans and his receivers more time to make plays down the field. It was an element that had been sorely missing from an offense that has struggled to score this season. Brady passed for 432 yards with three touchdowns and ran for another score in what was easily his best game of the year. It didn’t hurt that the Panthers continued to play a single safety and often left cornerback Keith Taylor Jr. on an island with Evans. “They were playing a lot of Cover One and Tom was just dropping dimes,” Evans said. “Those were some really, really good balls. One of the best games I’ve seen Tom play since I’ve been here. They were just falling right in the breadbasket every time. “The offensive line did a good job protecting. Everybody had a hand on the pile in the offense. It’s our best game offensively.” While the Bucs were compiling 478 total yards, their defense forced three turnovers. Sean Murphy-Bunting had the first interception of the year thrown by Carolina quarterback Sam Darnold, who also lost two fumbles. None of those turnovers was bigger than the one on the strip sack by outside linebacker Anthony Nelson, and the fumble was recovered by Vita Vea with the Bucs clinging to a three-point lead with 2:24 remaining in the game. It led to Brady’s 1-yard touchdown sneak to ice the game. “We know if (Brady) gets a clean pocket, he’ll shred a defense,” guard Shaq Mason said. “(The Panthers) got to him a couple times, which we hate to see. But overall, I think he had a good day at the office.” The Bucs finish the regular season at Atlanta but are locked into the No. 4 seed in the NFC and coach Todd Bowles will contemplate resting some starters. Sunday’s game may not have corrected all the Bucs’ problems, but it served notice to the NFC that Brady is still the king of fourth-quarter comebacks; he has had four this season alone. Bowles’ team also has shown a stubborn resiliency. “Every year, you try to win the division, and we won the division,” Bowles said. “It doesn’t matter how you win the division. My heart ain’t got much left in it. But I feel great. “Playoffs start a clean slate for everybody. It’s a three-game elimination tournament.” It seemed fitting that the Bucs would have the most passing yards and their second-highest point total this season (they scored 31 in a loss to the Chiefs) on a day when former coach Bruce Arians went into the team’s Ring of Honor. “No risk it, no biscuit,” said Bowles, echoing Arians’ anthem. “We make it interesting.” The return of Brady-to-Evans, which produced 27 touchdowns in the previous two seasons, could make the Bucs a tough out in the postseason. Evans was still beaming after doing a series of 1-on-1 interviews with TV networks in the locker room, especially when he was asked about the Jordan jersey. “I love throwback jerseys and especially M.J. jerseys,” Evans said. “This is one of my favorite ones.” His Airness no doubt would have approved. For one game, everybody wanted to be like Mike. Contact Rick Stroud at rstroud@tampabay.com. Follow @NFLSTROUD. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.