TAMPA — Fans will have a say in deciding this season’s inaugural class of the Lightning Hall of Fame. The Lightning created the Hall as part of the 30th anniversary season to honor individuals who have made significant contributions to the franchise on and off the ice. And on Friday, the organization announced the selection process for the first inductees. Twelve nominees were chosen by a 10-person selection committee consisting of individuals close to the franchise, including team personnel, former players and media members. Each committee member will choose two nominees for induction. The team is also allowing for fan participation that will serve as the 11th vote. At least one nominee will be selected, and potentially more depending on votes received and the decision of the selection committee. Those selected for the Hall — which will also include former players Martin St. Louis and Vinny Lecavalier, who had had their numbers retired — will be honored during the Lightning’s home game against Montreal on March 18 as a part of the team’s alumni weekend festivities. “We are very excited about our inaugural Lightning Hall of Fame nominees,” Lightning CEO Steve Griggs said. “Regardless of who is honored in March, we are extremely proud to recognize those who paved the way and helped make the organization what it is today.” Recognition of the honorees will be displayed in some manner within the seating bowl of Amalie Arena, but the details are still being finalized. Fan voting will begin Monday at 9 a.m. and run through 5 p.m. Sunday, Jan. 29 on the Lightning’s new team app (downloadable on Apple IOS and Google Android). Other events scheduled for the Lightning’s alumni weekend March 16-19 will be announced at a later date. The 12 nominees (in alphabetical order): Dave Andreychuk: He was the captain of the Lightning’s 2003-04 Stanley Cup-winning team. The Hockey Hall of Famer held the NHL record for most career power-play goals (274) until it was broken by the Capitals’ Alex Ovechkin last season. Brian Bradley: He had a career-high 42 goals to lead the franchise in the inaugural 1992-93 season, and he led Tampa Bay to its first playoff berth in the 1995-96 season. Terry Crisp: The team’s first head coach played a huge role in growing the game in Tampa Bay and coached the Lightning to their first postseason appearance. He won 142 games in parts of six seasons as head coach and coached the third-most games (391) in team history. Phil Esposito: The Lightning’s founder, Esposito built his dream of bringing hockey to Tampa Bay and made it successful. A Hockey Hall of Famer as a player, he has been with the Lightning organization for more than 30 years and is still a radio color analyst. Jay Feaster: He built the Lightning’s first Stanley Cup-winning team as the club’s general manager from 2002-08. He acquired key players like Ruslan Fedotenko, Darryl Sydor and Brad Lukowich. Ruslan Fedotenko: A star of the Lightning’s 2003-04 Stanley Cup run, Fedotenko scored both goals in Game 7 of the Stanley Cup final, had a team-high six goals in the Eastern Conference final and tied for the postseason lead with 12 goals. Pavel Kubina: The former seventh-round pick spent 10 seasons with the Lightning and played in the second-most games (662) by a defenseman in Lightning history, trailing only Victor Hedman. Fredrik Modin: He ranks ninth on the franchise’s all-time goals list (145). He was third in postseason scoring in 2004 with 19 points, and he was an alternate captain for four seasons with the Lightning. Henry Paul: He partnered with Phil Esposito to help establish the franchise’s early business operations and served as the team’s first vice president and secretary. Rick Peckham: The Lightning TV play-by-play broadcaster for 24 seasons, he was the recipient of the 2020 Foster Hewitt Memorial Award for outstanding contributions to the broadcast industry and the game, presented by the Hockey Hall of Fame. The Amalie Arena press box is named in his honor. Brad Richards: He was the winner of the Conn Smythe Trophy as the top player in the postseason after leading all players with 26 points (12 goals, 14 assists) in the Lightning’s 2003-04 Stanley Cup run. Also won the Lady Byng Trophy for sportsmanship in 2003-04. Rob Zamuner: He played for the Lightning’s first seven teams and was the only player to compete in all 84 games in the inaugural season. He served as the fourth captain in team history and is 13th on franchise’s games played list (475). • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.