A farmers’ market A reset in St. Petersburg: A look at Mayor Ken Welch’s first year in office | Jan. 6 Considering that occupancy at Tangerine Plaza in St. Petersburg is still an issue, has Mayor Kenneth Welch considered creating a real farmers’ market there, which will not only serve the local neighborhoods but will attract customers from all over? Most large cities have markets, often subsidized by local governments to keep rent low that results in lower prices to consumers. Detroit, St. Louis and Baltimore are successful markets to study. Also, how about looking into a couple of police substations? They are very successful in other cities, too. Considering that St. Pete wants to bolster using social workers to intervene in non-violent conflicts, there substations could integrate their services in a neighborhood center? Both Gulfport and Pinellas Park have successful substations, also called police mini stations. A catchy new name could be used in St. Pete that incorporates a nod to police and social worker presence. Rand Moorhead, St Petersburg 400 years of it DeSantis to scrutinize diversity programs at state’s universities | Jan. 6 Gov. Ron DeSantis seems to be at war with diversity, equity and inclusion. The “trendy ideology” of racism has been around in this country for more than 400 years, yet it seems DeSantis wants us to think it is some newfangled “woke” thing. Mackie McNamara, Tampa A quick solution Florida’s federal lawsuit against Immigration | Jan. 11 Gov. Ron DeSantis should focus on illegal immigrants in Florida, and not look at nationwide issues. Florida has become a mecca, a beacon of hope, to undocumented immigrants, thanks to the inaction of the governor. Hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are in Florida right now, employed and making more money than they could have dreamed. The governor could easily stop the pipeline of undocumented immigrants headed to Florida by requiring E-verify for all employers, not simply the state of Florida. Ron DeSantis talks tough about undocumented immigrants, but I think his actions are hypocritical in Florida . Timothy H. McClain, St. Pete Beach