Whom do you believe? Jan. 6 takeaways: Final revelations from investigation | Dec. 30 Whom do you trust? Not political leaders, but regular people. Do they put their beliefs above evidence? Do they put tribe above truth? If they are unwilling to look at evidence, then beware. We all choose what we believe. But if we are unwilling to put evidence above ourselves, we can’t even trust ourselves. We’re all tempted to do it. They are our friends and neighbors. They are nice people. Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels captured the essence of the “big lie” in 1941, claiming that “The English follow the principle that when one lies, one should lie big, and stick to it. They keep up their lies, even at the risk of looking ridiculous.” We witness today the ease of spreading lies. Millions believe the last election was stolen based on allegations without evidence. The French philosopher Voltaire is credited with saying that “Those who can make you believe in absurdities can make you commit atrocities.” (While he never said that, it is a fair English interpretation of something he wrote in 1765.) Times may have changed. People haven’t. If you have been following the evidence, you know the former president knew he lost the 2020 election while he was — and still is — telling people he didn’t. He knows his audience. He actually has two: Those who believe what he says because they need to be lied to; and those who don’t care if it’s true because they want power. James Tweed, Ocean City, New Jersey Inquiring minds want to know Why George Santos’ lies matter | Column, Jan. 2 Question: Is his name really George Santos? Darryl David, St. Petersburg MAGA’s mega matter Why George Santos’ lies matter | Column, Jan. 2 Their inability to simply admit they were wrong in supporting “the big lie” is the albatross around the neck of the MAGA wing of the Republican Party that is slowly but surely reducing them to ashes. George Santos is the perfect example of what is in store. He is a prolific, arrogant liar, possibly from New York since no one seems to know for sure. If God gave these MAGA-ites the choice: “Admit you were wrong or die,” I am guessing that they would simply call the General Services Administration to see if they could arrange for a government-furnished coffin and then illegally deduct its cost from their taxes. James Stuart-Emery, Valrico