A reminder of George Wallace A Victory Lap: Gov. Ron DeSantis’ inauguration | Jan. 4 Whenever I hear Gov. Ron DeSantis speak, I can’t help but think back to another southern governor of the past: Alabama’s George Wallace. In his inauguration speech in 1963, Wallace proclaimed: “In the name of the greatest people that have ever trod this earth, I draw the line in the dust and toss the gauntlet before the feet of tyranny, and I say segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever.” DeSantis sounds similar when he claims over and over again, “Florida is where woke goes to die.” Both men vowed to fight against the progressive wave of the time. DeSantis, like Wallace, also pulls political stunts to attract national attention. Wallace stood in the door to the admissions office of the University of Alabama to symbolically block two black students from enrolling. DeSantis picks on immigrants and Democrat office holders like Hillsborough County State Attorney Andrew Warren. Wallace also wanted to be president, running unsuccessfully four times. We’ll see how DeSantis makes out. Joseph Brown, Tampa A warranted lap A Victory Lap: Gov. Ron DeSantis’ inauguration | Jan. 4 I see readers are complaining about Gov. Ron DeSantis’ inauguration speech. Any time you win with nearly 60% of the vote you are entitled to a victory lap. John Spengler, Spring Hill Why your God? Reap what they sow | Letters, Jan. 5 I would like to remind the letter writer that not all “True Americans” believe in God. Not all believers worship in the same way. Perhaps if the letter writer spent more time believing in the word of God — do unto others as you would have them do unto you — perhaps the letter writer would be, in fact, more godly himself. People are good and bad regardless of their religious belief system. Tobey Burwick, Dunedin A dog leash would help Motorized mayhem on the Pinellas Trail | Letter, Dec. 31 I am a senior citizen who regularly rides a bicycle on the Northdale Trail. More and more often, I encounter arrogant dog owners who ignore the leash rule. Why they feel that this common sense rule, which is for the benefit of not only humans but also for dogs, is maddening. I recently mentioned to one such person that I had learned the hard way never to ride past an unleashed dog. The dog owner’s response to my past experiences was “...not by my dog.” I wish there was a way to enforce the Hillsborough County leash law against these inconsiderate folks. Tim Hammar, Tampa