The Socratic method Times that Ron DeSantis changed Florida education | Feb. 12 Gov. Ron DeSantis wants our schools to focus on the history of Western civilization. He might benefit from studying the case of a certain Greek teacher who exposed the foolishness of political leaders 2,400 years ago. The aristocracy of Athens, not particularly happy about exposure of their intellectual limitations, had the teacher sentenced to death. His name was Socrates, admired all these years later as one of Western civilization’s greatest intellects. Can anyone name any of his accusers? Jim Smith, St. Petersburg Unmaking a racist I grew up a racist in St. Petersburg | Perspective, Feb. 12 I believe that the final paragraph of professor Charles B. Dew’s essay outlines our governor’s overriding motivation for suppressing the impartial dissemination of the history of race relations within the public school system. In referencing his classroom use of a historical document, a slave traders’ market report, Dew closed with, “If I had been exposed to this deeply educational broadside when I was a student at Mirror Lake Junior High, the process of my unmaking as a racist might have started much earlier.” Brian T. Walkowiak, St. Petersburg Police the nursing homes Nursing home violations surge | Feb. 12 It’s absolutely appalling how nursing home violations have spiked over the past four years in Florida. Perhaps if the DeSantis administration believed that the nursing homes were teaching critical race theory to the residents, they might feel compelled to investigate. Jeannine Kwasnik, New Port Richey Listen to the students Do away with AP classes? | Feb. 14 Listen to the students who take Advanced Placement courses, and let us learn from them and their experiences in AP classes, including African-American studies. I’d like to take that class. If the governor is worried about “woke,” I wonder what he calls his ideology — asleep? Betsy Gannon, St. Petersburg Back to the ’50s New College board more than doubles president’s pay for Richard Corcoran | Feb. 14 The new trustees of my alma mater, New College in Sarasota, are paying the new male president more than twice what the female president they fired was paid. Their crusade to drag the college back to the 1950s is full speed ahead. Tell a student who can’t live in the once-beautiful I.M. Pei dorms because they’re crumbling that this is a good use of their tuition and my tax money. These trustees disdain students and parents — and now taxpayers. They’re not trustees. They’re conquerers. Bruce Benidt, Port Richey