The big story: Students are still arriving to school late, and efforts to hire more bus drivers to improve the problem are not as easy as it might seem School districts are seeking creative ways to solve the situation. They’ve changed start times, shifted routes, altered student class schedules and more, all in an attempt to get kids to school on time. The Pinellas County school district is hoping its latest plan will help it become more efficient while it continues to look for drivers. It involves eliminating bus stops and surveying families for their bus riding intentions for the fall, among other things. Officials said they expect to have shorter bus rides, too. Read more here. Hot topics Attendance zones: Hillsborough County School Board members said they’re not ready to vote on proposals to redraw school maps and close some campuses. The action has been scheduled for next week. Board politics: Gov. Ron DeSantis met with Moms for Liberty leaders and key Republican officials to determine which school board members across Florida he will target during the 2024 election. His team made the announcement to Fox News. The list, later released through a newsletter by the Florida Standard, includes Pinellas board members Laura Hine and Eileen Long, Hillsborough board members Nadia Combs and Jessica Vaughn, Brevard board member Jennifer Jenkins, Duval board members Kelly Coker and Cindy Pearson, Indian River board members Peggy Jones and Brian Barefoot, Miami-Dade board member Luisa Santos, St. Lucie board member Jack Kelly, Volusia board members Anita Burnette and Carl Persis, and Sarasota board member Tom Edwards. Book challenges: After removing three books from circulation, Escambia County School Board members raised concerns about how the district could review all books on school shelves in accordance with new state requirements, WEAR reports. Student protests: Florida College Democrats and Dream Defenders are organizing rallies around Florida to protest Gov. Ron DeSantis’ education agenda, the Tallahassee Democrat reports. • University of North Florida students called on their school officials to protect diversity and inclusion efforts during a campus demonstration, WTLV reports. Superintendents: Martin County superintendent John Millay announced he will step down at the end of June, TC Palm reports. He has held the post since 2020, when the post became appointed rather than elected. Vouchers: The Florida Senate Education PreK-12 Committee advanced a measure to create universal education saving accounts for all school-aged children regardless of family income, Florida Politics reports. More from WFSU. Youth risk survey: The Florida Department of Education is pressuring school districts not to use the CDC’s youth risk survey, calling it “inflammatory and sexualized,” K-12 Dive reports. Department officials said in March 2022 they had no intention to stop collecting behavior data, but that they wanted to create their own survey and rely on the state’s experts — something that has not yet occurred. Bill filings: A state senator wants to have elementary schools provide twice weekly music lessons in kindergarten through second grade, Main Street Daily News reports. • A Florida House member aims to make it easier for military families to access school options, WEAR reports. From the police blotter ... A security monitor at a Miami-Dade County charter school was arrested on allegations of engaging in a sexual act with a student, WTVJ reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Are you ready for some cute animals? Today, it’s baby pandas. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.