TAMPA — For Phil Esposito, watching the Lightning grow from his own pipe dream to the standard for NHL franchises over their three decades of existence is like watching his own child grow up before his eyes. The Lightning founder spent years drumming up local support and financial funding, and selling to the NHL the idea that hockey could be successful in Florida. Even when the franchise played its first game in 1992 at Expo Hall at the Florida State Fairgrounds, the work really had just begun. Esposito helped the franchise navigate through its first seasons by trying to build a competitive team despite serious financial constraints. “It’s like my baby,” Esposito said Thursday. “There were a lot of people that really helped me, but there’s no denying it was my idea.” Esposito will be an inaugural member of the Lightning’s new Hall of Fame, to be inducted along with Marty St. Louis and Vinny Lecavalier (the two players with their numbers retired by the team) March 17 at Amalie Arena. He also will be celebrated the next night, before a home game against St. Louis’ Montreal Canadiens. Thursday, Esposito was fitted for his Lightning Hall of Fame jacket, which will be the same shade of blue as the team’s jerseys. “For me, to be the first is very, very special,” said Esposito, who was picked for the inaugural class by a 10-member committee consisting of team personnel, broadcasters and media members close to the team. “Vinny and Marty got their numbers retired. It’s terrific. I love to see the players’ numbers retired. I have mine retired in Boston. “But this, it feels like my kids have graduated college, they’ve gone on. You know, I’m a great grandfather now. And I’m like, ‘Holy cripe, you know, this is something.’ And now, to start this Hall of Fame, it took a while. You have to set some sort of tradition first before you can go on and do the things that you really think are the right things to do. This is the right thing to do to start a Hall of Fame here, without a doubt.” The Lightning now have won three Stanley Cups, including two in the past three seasons, and are seen as a model franchise both on and off the ice. Meanwhile, owner Jeff Vinik’s Water Street project is turning the area around the arena into an urban hub that was unthinkable when Esposito first eyed a barren plot of land off the water across from Harbour Island years ago. “After 30 years, I think the tradition and three Stanley Cups and going to the finals, it’s incredible,” Esposito said. “And when I talk about it, I get little goose bumps. Because for me, the 2004 (team) when they won that Stanley Cup, it was like my kid has graduated and they’ve moved on, thank God. But this is special for me. It really is. I make small of things, it’s just my way, but it’s special.” Esposito, a Hockey Hall of Famer as a player and still the league’s seventh all-time leading goal scorer, remembers his first time in Tampa. He had just made a golf trip to Orlando with some friends and, despite its lack of high-rise buildings, he immediately was intrigued by the notion of establishing hockey in the region. “I was driving in and I was like, ‘Where are the buildings? There’s no buildings. How could this be the 12th-largest television market in the country?’” he said. “Obviously, I didn’t realize about Bradenton and Clearwater, and Brandon wasn’t even incorporated and all the rest of that. And from that moment on, and meeting a guy named Henry Paul, from that moment on there was nothing else I wanted to do.” Esposito was the Lightning’s general manager for their first seven seasons and said he had to constantly sell players on the area. He said one player complained to him that the weather was too hot. Esposito traded the player to Edmonton, he said, “so he could freeze his (butt) off.” “That was the biggest thing for me in the beginning, trying to explain to people up north and Canada and New York, all these places, that we play indoors. Would you rather be coming out of the game to 65 to 70 (degrees) or 10 below? Duh. And it took a while to get the players to be interested because, not so much of the weather as much as the money, and it was hard to justify. “And here we are, having a Hall of Fame for the Tampa Bay Lightning. And long after I’m gone, this thing will still be going, and I hope it goes forever, because without a doubt this is the greatest thing I’ve ever done in hockey. And I did a lot of things as a player.” Now, the current group of players can know the impact Esposito made by establishing the organization. He still is in many of their ears as the team’s radio analyst, usually telling them to shoot the puck more often. “Obviously, the perfect guy to kick that (Hall of Fame) off,” Lightning captain Steven Stamkos said. “I think it’s great for this organization. We’ve had a long enough history now where we can start to celebrate some of the people that have made this to the franchise that it is today, and obviously Phil was the founding father.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.