In a conference room at the Vinoy Renaissance St. Petersburg Resort Wednesday, guests stood as the speakers blast Taylor Swift’s “Shake It Off.” Then St. Petersburg Economic Development Corporation president J. P. DuBuque introduced the newest company to move to St. Petersburg: Relic Tickets, an event platform on the blockchain from Lakeland. Their goal? To solve the pain points that both customers and venues feel when using other ticketing platforms like Ticketmaster. Relic Tickets uses blockchain technology, a digital ledger that duplicates transaction records to a decentralized network of computers, to limit fraud and scalping, collect “unique data” and offer event benefits like collectible NFTs also called non-fungible tokens. Problems with ticketing escalated when Swift launched her Eras stadium tour and people waited hours in queues only to loose tickets after the site was overwhelmed by fans and bots. The U.S. Justice Department said it was investigating Ticketmaster’s parent company LiveNation, predating the Swift ticket chaos, to see if it was violating antitrust laws. The company also faced congressional hearings where senators from both sides questioned the company over whether it was a monopoly. Relic aims to use the transparency features of blockchain to help solve many pain points felt in ticketing whether it’s placing limits on how much they can be resold for. “For every single ticket that you buy, we can implement rules depending upon what events it is — live entertainment, music, festivals, whatever,” Relic co-founder Hunter Abramson said at the Vinoy. The company was founded in Lakeland and needed a new headquarters to grow. Abramson said they were originally set on moving to startup hub Austin, Texas. They also considered a move to Miami. But when someone pitched St. Petersburg, they reconsidered after speaking with companies in the area. “Relic is built on respect, integrity and community. We’re working on re-imagining an entire ecosystem that desperately needs to feel this way,” Abramson said in a statement. “Clearly, we need to be in a vibrant city that believes in and invests in community and innovation all wrapped in an amazing quality of life.” Relic will begin working out of the co-working space Thrive DTSP as it searches for an official headquarters within St. Petersburg. The company stated it will grow to have 20 to 30 employees in the city within a few years.