TAMPA — The Lightning certainly returned to Tampa from their four-game, nine-day road trip with a bad taste in their mouths after a 5-4 loss in Las Vegas, the only game of the four in which they did not earn a point. But their final trip through the Western Conference was an important one that showed us a lot about this team as it enters the stretch run of the regular season. Here are three things we took away from the trip: Every point matters The Lightning earned five of a possible eight points on the trip, opening with wins in Dallas and Colorado, playing the type of defensive-minded hockey needed in the playoffs. Though unable to crack Coyotes goaltender Connor Ingram in Arizona, they played well defensively and nabbed a point in the shootout loss. But after a weird opening period in Vegas — the Lightning were down 4-2 following the first 20 minutes — they felt they were outplaying the Golden Knights in many ways. But a comeback never materialized in the third period — Tampa Bay has outscored opponents 71-62 and won five games when trailing after two — and the missed opportunity could be seen in  the standings. After pushing to close the gap with Toronto for second place in the Atlantic Division — and home-ice advantage in a potential first-round playoff meeting with the Leafs — they returned home three points back. While the Lightning have often dismissed the notion that home ice matters in the playoffs, and they have won many postseason series without it, the fact that they have played so well at home this season (21-4-2) — as has Toronto (22-6-4) — indicates that having home ice in this matchup might mean something. Early leads are key Games aren’t decided in the first period, and one dominant period doesn’t earn two points. But the Lightning are a different team when they start out well and take a lead into the first intermission. The Lightning are 20-0-1 in games where they have led after the opening period. They recovered with a strong second period Saturday and cut the lead to one goal, but the Lightning are not at their best when chasing a game. There’s a big difference between getting pucks on the net and using it to put pressure on the defense, and the Lightning’s aggressiveness didn’t achieve the latter on Saturday. And even late in the third, after Andrei Vasilevskiy made a superb save inside the final two minutes, the Lightning yielded an empty-net goal when they couldn’t maintain possession late with an extra attacker, something that has occurred too much this season in 6-on-5. Depth matters If there’s one way the Lightning are looking to upgrade at the trade deadline it’s getting more forward depth, and given their salary-cap restraints (they only have $719,967 of cap room, less than a league-minimum salary), they will have to move a player to get a player. But on this road trip, they got a refreshing jolt from their bottom-six forwards. The Lightning received three goals from their fourth line in Vegas, including Vladislav Namestnikov’s second in three games after scoring just four goals in his first 50. The Lightning also received goals from Corey Perry and Pierre-Edouard Bellemare. While getting that secondary scoring is big, especially in the playoffs when teams need contributions across all four lines, the puck possession might be even more important. That fourth line needs to wear down opponents, control the puck and make the other team work.  Despite playing just 6:22, that’s what the line of Namestnikov, Bellemare and Perry did against Vegas, dominating in shot attempts 8-3. The Lightning might be spending the days leading up to the March 3 deadline watching other teams upgrade. They have already seen Toronto improve by getting Ryan O’Reilly and Noel Acciari from St. Louis, but they’ll need the mentality that this roster can win a championship, and treat any rabbit that general manager Julien BriseBois can pull out of his hat as a bonus. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.