Editor’s note: Readers had a lot to say about a bill that would make it illegal for Florida public high schools to start earlier than 8:30 a.m. Here’s a sample. I had my eyes wide open Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Editorial, Feb. 15 The best teachers and the best theories on education can’t compensate for teenagers who are sleep-deprived. The majority of students are functioning on six hours of sleep or less because of homework, athletic events and work that keep them up past 11 p.m. Every day, thousands wake up too early to catch buses in the dark. Sleep deprivation results in lethargy, short attention spans and short tempers. I observed this every day for the 20 years I taught high school in Pinellas County. All the theories on education are just fancy words if the basic needs of students cannot be met. Thank you for publishing scientific data from the American Academy of Pediatrics that proves this to be true. Passage of House Bill 733 will ensure that the mental and physical health of teenagers is a top priority. Jan Kokernot, St. Petersburg Let public buses help Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Editorial, Feb. 15 If we are trying to get high schools to start later, eliminate the old argument that busing stands in the way. We can provide the health and safety (not to mention academic) benefits of later start times for teens by doing something as simple as giving them a city bus pass. The Pinellas County School Board could work with the Pinellas Suncoast Transit Authority to adjust bus routes to serve high school students in the morning and afternoon. We could then issue all high school students a bus pass and have them travel to and from school that way. Staying late for sports or clubs? Catch a later bus. Have an early doctor appointment? Catch a later bus. Have a job? Use the bus. Want to go back for the football game? Ride the bus. Such programs, like one tried in Thousand Palms, California, have resulted in savings for school districts and increased youth ridership even on non-school days. Everyone wins here. High school students would have greater freedom to travel throughout the county. The school board would have greater flexibility in arranging transportation for elementary and middle school students. We do a public service in teaching teenagers about the benefits of buses, trolleys, trams and trains. And we would be supporting PSTA, hopefully providing expanded service for all users. Kate Munkittrick, St. Petersburg Better asleep than ‘woke’ Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Editorial, Feb. 15 The Tampa Bay Times Editorial Board suggests that we ”let teens wake up.” “Oh no,” the governor and Legislature would reply. “We do not want ‘woke’ students. Keep them sleeping and in the dark. The less they know, the better for us.” Mortimer Brown, Lutz Back in the day Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Editorial, Feb. 15 Today’s teens are fortunate to live in today’s world instead of the one in which I grew up. I started school in the early 1940s from a small farm and was the first on the bus each morning at just before 7 a.m. We were about 15 miles from the school on mostly unpaved roads. Before boarding the bus, we had chores to do. I milked a cow, fed hogs, chickens, cows, a horse. We were last off the bus in evening, and had the chores all over again. Early in fall we had to get off the bus and do things like gather corn by hand and haul it to a corn crib. Next day, same old routine. We weren’t the only riders on the bus, or in the school with similar stories. I didn’t also mention that we heated our house with a wood fireplace and had to get wood each day to get some heat. We didn’t have electricity until I was about 10 and studied with coal oil lamps. No TV, little radio. I’m not complaining at all because I always heard, that hard work never killed anyone. Just a comparison, and it prepared me for my Air Force basic training! Dale Eubanks, Trinity What to teach first period Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Editorial, Feb. 15 The recent study that reveals high school students are almost asleep for their early morning classes presents a unique opportunity for Florida. Gov. Ron DeSantis, our educator-in-chief, can demand that all high schools must schedule their classes for U.S. history and African-American studies for the first period. This would ensure that the students who are half asleep will never learn anything that will make them “woke.” With an early morning class schedule, students can finish their school day well before 2 p.m. and hasten to a job operating a deep fryer at a fast-food joint. The civics teachers, having completed their class instruction in the first period, could devote the rest of their day to the more useful tasks of teaching football. Charles Chamberlain, Spring Hill