With a controversial vote scheduled only days away, the Hillsborough County School Board might be tempted to postpone a decision on whether to close several half-empty schools. But that’s not a solution for families whose children are stuck in poor schools that are headed nowhere. It’s certainly not fair to taxpayers, who pay for this costly waste. And delaying would only aggravate the longer-term challenges facing Hillsborough’s public school system. The board should support a student reassignment plan Tuesday that will improve the schools, make them more efficient and position them to compete. For months, the board has wrangled over several options to maximize existing campuses, which could save the cash-strapped district millions of dollars and redirect money to the classroom. A district consultant presented three scenarios that would close between three and seven schools, partially close several others and reassign thousands of students to new campuses. A fourth option, which Superintendent Addison Davis recommended this month, would close five schools, phased in over several years. In all, the boundary changes could affect up to 24,000 students, as the district looks to balance the number of underused schools with those splitting at the seams. Not surprisingly, the effort has drawn the backlash of some board members and parents, who say minority students will be disproportionately affected, and who want children to remain in their neighborhood schools. On Tuesday, board member Lynn Gray said she was alarmed by pending legislation that could vastly expand the state’s school voucher program at the public schools’ expense. She suggested postponing the vote on closing schools until after the spring legislative session, when the impacts of any voucher expansion become clearer. We share Gray’s concerns with the private school voucher legislation, House Bill 1, which the nonprofit Florida Policy Institute estimates could cost the state $4 billion in its initial year. Any measure that causes public school enrollment and funding levels to drop would not only hurt Hillsborough’s bottom line, but likely spur even more boundary upheaval. But the school choice movement is a ship that’s sailed. Vouchers are nothing new, and in Republican-led Florida, it’s unrealistic to think that legislative support for charters, private schools and nontraditional school options will do anything but grow. So there’s no sense waiting to see how bad things might get when dozens of Hillsborough schools are already seriously under capacity. Hillsborough should realize that closing schools is the first step to becoming more competitive. One-third of Hillsborough’s schools — 83 in total — operate at or below 70% capacity. Hillsborough has fewer students today in traditional public schools than it did in 2018, thanks to the increasing popularity of charters. Of the schools Davis recommended to close, four of five operate at half capacity, and none scored better than a C grade. Even under his limited plan, which Davis offered to find a board compromise, the district could save about $14 million annually. That’s the minimum board members should accept to repair the district’s finances and to redirect some savings into the classroom. If anything, this decision is a reminder of how far education in Florida has changed, how fast the landscape is evolving and what the public schools must do to survive. Hillsborough has never closed a school because of low enrollment in its 140-year history. No wonder it may see this exercise as radical and politically fraught. The greater risk, though, is for the district to lumber through this era without the courage to make unpopular decisions, the money to help more students achieve or a selling point to make its schools more attractive. That’s why it’s beyond time for Tuesday’s vote. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.