The big story: It’s the big salary of incoming New College interim president Richard Corcoran. Corcoran’s appointment to lead the conservative remaking of the tiny Sarasota school heads to the State University System Board of Governors on Wednesday. Some people have questioned whether he’s qualified to lead the school. But those conversations have been overwhelmed by the wage that New College trustees offered the former state education commissioner and House speaker. At $699,000 plus benefits, Corcoran would earn in a year more than double what his predecessor was paid, and more than almost every other president in the system. Trustees say he’s worth it. For comparisons of how Corcoran’s salary rates, check out these charts for some perspective. Hot topics Vouchers: Saying their freedom and flexibility is at stake, home schooling groups are asking Florida lawmakers to drop home education out of proposals to expand vouchers and create universal education savings accounts. The Senate Education PreK-12 Committee is set to discuss SB 202 when it meets today at 9:30 a.m. The House PreK-12 Appropriations subcommittee takes up its version on Thursday. • Florida Democrats argue that the bill would destroy the public school system, Florida Phoenix reports. Diversity, equity and inclusion: Florida lawmakers have filed legislation that would prohibit state colleges and universities from making hiring and admissions decisions based on race or political ideology. Book bans: The Escambia County School Board voted to remove three challenged books that deal with LGTBQ characters from its shelves, WKRG reports. They are “All Boys Aren’t Blue,” “And Tango Makes Three” and “When Aidan Became a Brother.” • One of the nation’s most banned children’s books, “I Am Jazz,” is written by a South Florida transgender rights activist, WLRN reports. The DeSantis agenda: Gov. Ron DeSantis told a crowd in suburban Chicago that some schools are teaching children to hate police officers, NBC Chicago reports. Hundreds protested his appearance. Student transportation: The Orange County school district is the first in Florida to use electric buses to move students, WKMG reports. Attendance zones: Hillsborough County superintendent Addison Davis defended proposals to redraw school boundaries and close some under-used campuses during the first of five town hall meetings, WFLA reports. Other school news The Lee County school district is preparing to reopen a rebuilt middle school. The School Board has six choices for its name, the Fort Myers News-Press reports. Osceola High in Osceola County dedicated a monument recognizing the school’s first Black graduate. Charles Martin graduated in 1966, WKMG reports. An Orange County middle school teacher was placed on administrative leave amid allegations he used students as “political pawns” on a TikTok video. His students are defending him, WESH reports. An Alachua County School Board member says poor student behavior has gotten out of hand. Diyonne McGraw called for new initiatives to better serve at-risk students, WGFL reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Bet you never thought about Michael Jackson’s “Smooth Criminal” performed on a traditional Chinese harp. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.