Currently many politicians are declaring opposition to “wokeness” as part of the political insanity sweeping our country. Little do they realize that wokeness was fundamental to the creation of western civilization and our democracy. For progressives, “woke” describes the increasing realization that things are amiss in our society and the subsequent need to address them. Republican politicians use “woke” to encompass anything progressive that does not correspond with their acceptable cultural expectations. This includes anything dealing with race, LGBTQ issues, global warming, the need for police reform or the reality of the 2020 election. Gov. Ron DeSantis recently advocated a return to the focus of teaching western civilization. This country owes a debt to Greek democracy and Roman republicanism. However, little does DeSantis appreciate that the beneficial advances in western civilization came from the “woke” periods of the time. The ultimate woke statement of the 16th century was Martin Luther’s Ninety-five Theses. This ultimately led to his excommunication in a DeSantis-like attempt to suppress Luther’s observations regarding church fallacies. Luther’s Theses was a major positive event in the history of western civilization, despite a reactionary anti-woke response by the church, which led to 30 years of terror and war. The many Protestant Christian sects today directly enjoy the benefits of Luther’s woke stand. Our country’s greatest debt is to the European 18th century Enlightenment. Free thinking elites of the time were woke to the structural and cultural deficits of their own societies. This country’s forefathers absorbed and then implemented many of the woke ideals espoused by these Scottish, English and French intellectual elites. “All men are created equal” was an amazing woke statement in the 18th century that directly challenged the status quo of monarchy and divine right of kings. Freedom of speech was another idea that was decidedly woke in the milieu of the 17th and 18th century. Woke concepts have always challenged the self-satisfied status quo. No monarch or dictator wants confrontation by those speaking uncomfortable truths. Contrary to the woke abolitionist movement in the 19th century, the Southern anti-woke forces propelled this country into a disastrous bloody four-year civil war. Similar reactionary anti-woke forces are rising in the South again. Religious orthodoxy is spectacularly resistant to new ideas and thinking. The Catholic church threatened Galileo with torture for the woke suggestion that the sun didn’t go around the earth. This denial of reality took the church many years to overcome. Today, DeSantis’ “don’t say gay” push recapitulates such religious intolerance. One hopes that it doesn’t take many years to overcome such bigotry. One of the first choices of tyrants, whether communist, fascist or would-be strongman, is to suppress or abolish institutions that embrace free thinking. The New College in Sarasota is currently under the threat of suppression of its free-thinking values. DeSantis is in the process of replacing the current college board with handpicked anti-woke reactionaries. There is no need to abolish an institution if it is destroyed from within. Historical scholarship and the obvious current reality awakens us to the reality of structural racism. This woke discourse creates discomfort in those who wish to maintain the status quo. In Florida, this results in efforts to suppress school courses exploring these woke concepts. The idea of a plural culture, where all can privately enjoy life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, is quickly being sacrificed for political advantage. Authoritarians don’t like “woke” since it challenges their comfortable world. In the 19th century, politicians stoked hysterical fear with anti-Masonic and anti-Chinese campaigns. Today, anti-woke political efforts use the same fear technique to garner support. The future of democratic values requires us to learn from the past and avoid those mistakes. Fear mongering is an essential technique to fight woke progress. But President Franklin Roosevelt said, “The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” Supposedly it was Ben Franklin who said we have “A republic, if we can keep it.” Now, it is up to all of us to reject the fear rhetoric of authoritarianism and embrace being “woke” to the work necessary to support and improve our sacred democracy, so that all can enjoy the promise of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. William D. Harrison is a retired computer system administrator. He has a master’s degree in history from George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia, and currently lives in Jacksonville.