SARASOTA — When Manuel Margot crashed into the rightfield wall at Tropicana Field last June, what could have been a breakout season for the Rays outfielder came crashing to an end. Margot actually managed to come back in 2022 from what was a horrendous-looking injury, but his confidence and swing were gone. Monday, Margot made his 2023 spring debut against the Orioles at Ed Smith Stadium with a renewed confidence and swing. He lined a single down the rightfield line in his first at-bat and looked solid in the field. “I think the confidence is a lot better,” Margot said through team interpreter Manny Navarro. “I worked so hard to be able to strengthen that part of my game, and I think it’s gonna help me a lot.” Margot always has been valued as a speed/defense guy. The Rays gave him a $19 million extension last April that will keep him in Tampa Bay through the 2024 season in part because of that strong foundation. But last season, Margot was off to the start everyone in baseball thought he was capable of offensively. When he was carted off the field June 20 with what turned out to be a “significant” patellar tendon strain, Margot was hitting .302 with a .365 on-base percentage and .423 slugging percentage. He had three homers and 27 RBIs in 51 games. Margot pushed himself through rehab and returned Aug. 20 to a team that was trying to catch the Yankees and secure a playoff spot. In 38 games after the injury, Margot hit .240 with a .276 on-base percentage and .318 slugging percentage. His OPS post-injury dropped nearly 200 points to .594. “I am not sure Manny was 100% healthy.,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said before Monday’s game. “I think his speed’s a big part of his game. He probably was a step-and-a-half less than what he is normally. I’d like to see that kind of come back this spring.” Cash said he understands why Margot tried to rush back. “He knows how important he is to our club and wanted to get back and get on the field,” Cash said. “But hopefully with a year — almost a season — removed from a major knee issue, he’s that much better. “He’s got to get his legs underneath him and hitting, too. That knee is an important part of his setup and how he can balance himself within the strike zone.” Margot admitted that after his dramatic injury, he was tentative in the box and the field when he first tried to come back. “When you deal with a traumatic injury like that, the day-to-day work is a little bit different,” he said. “I think the confidence is what affected me on defense and offense.” Looking at video of Margot’s swing from before the injury and after, there was a difference. Brady Williams, the third-base coach who also works as an assistant hitting coach, said the Rays saw a deviation in the path Margot’s bat took to and through the ball. “Definitely from the swing standpoint, I think he came back and his legs weren’t underneath him like they were in the beginning of the year,” Williams said. “I think just sitting for a long time, not running and stuff, that just kind of took a toll when he came back. He just wasn’t as active. “So that’s kind of what we’re just trying to build off for this spring.” Margot focused on his bat path, launch angles and on using his lower half in his swing this winter and early spring. The biggest difference is that he now has confidence in his right knee and leg. “It’s like a house,” he said. “If you don’t have a strong base, you’re not gonna be able to have a strong house.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.