LAKELAND — More than two weeks after a drive-by shooting in Lakeland’s midtown wounded 11 people, law enforcement officials announced that two men have been indicted on federal charges. During an early afternoon news conference at the Lakeland Police Department headquarters, U.S. Attorney Roger B. Handberg announced Wednesday that Nicholas Quinton Hanson, 32, of Lakeland is charged with possession of ammunition by a convicted felon and Marcus Dewonn Mobley Jr., 22, of Lakeland is charged with possession of a firearm and ammunition by a convicted felon. The men were arrested last week and are being held without bond. If convicted, each faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in federal prison. Hanson and Mobley are two of the five individuals police believe were in the blue Nissan Altima during the shooting, Lakeland Police Chief Sam Taylor said. Mobley is the registered owner of the vehicle. A 15-year-old boy also was arrested for riding in the back seat at the time of the shooting. The teen faces two felony charges as a juvenile delinquent in possession of firearms and delinquent in possession of ammunition. Taylor has asked for the public’s help in locating two people of interest related to the shooting: Brent Johnson III, 19, and Marquez Green, 28. The chief said police are looking to locate and bring in the men for interviews. One is suspected to be in Bartow, according to the chief, but he’s less certain about the other’s whereabouts — likely in the Lakeland area. “To have 11 people shot is horrible and the [Lakeland] Police Department took it that way, they were immediately engaged and put all their resources on that investigation,” Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said. Polk County Sheriff’s Office, the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the FBI and Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the U.S. Attorney’s Office and State Attorney’s Offices for Florida’s 10th Judicial Circuit have aided LPD in the ongoing shooting investigation. “It’s been a long two weeks since the shooting occurred,” Taylor said. “Over 50 search warrants have been served, thousands of pieces of evidence have been processed and we’ve flown evidence all over the country to be processed.” Judd announced these agencies have come together with other Polk County police departments to create a Violent Gang Investigative Task Force. He said the Jan. 30 shooting in Lakeland is thought to be the latest in a rising number of violent gang activities in Polk County. “This isn’t just a Lakeland problem, this isn’t a Polk County problem. It’s our whole community,” State Attorney Brian Haas said. “The criminals don’t know boundaries to jurisdictions, which is why it’s so important we are all working together in this.” Piecing together the evidence A combination of DNA evidence and witness reports have led law enforcement to make four arrests and identify seven individuals thought to be involved in the shooting. Two of the 11 victims who suffered critical injuries remain hospitalized, according to Taylor, one at Lakeland Regional Hospital, the other at Tampa General Hospital. Officers found 21 spent casings from the shooting scene that were transported to the ATF’s Forensic Science Laboratory in Washington, D.C. for DNA analysis. The casings came from a 9-mmm, a .40 caliber and 5.56-mm spent cartridge suspected to have come from firearms in the Nissan. Taylor said LPD has seized more than 10 firearms related to the shooting. An ATF biologist later reported swabs taken from 9-mm cartridge cases came up as a “very strong support” match for Hanson in the federal Combined DNA Index System, known as CODIS, according to a police affidavit. Police said they used surveillance videos obtained from area businesses to determine the suspects’ escape route the day of the shooting. After turning from North Iowa Avenue onto Memorial Boulevard, the suspects headed east on Memorial Boulevard, taking side streets to connect to West Lake Parker Drive. The vehicle traveled north on Lake Parker Drive to Granada Street before continuing north on Lakeland Hills Boulevard/State Road 33. Video captured the Nissan driving south on Baird Avenue 12 minutes after the shooting, according to a police affidavit. Lakeland Police Department received a call Jan. 31 from a citizen who reported seeing a car matching the suspects’ vehicle. A tow truck driver told police he had picked up the Nissan Altima from 3125 Baird Ave. after receiving a call from Booker Green, 26, asking him to transport it to a suspected chop shop, according to the affidavit. An anonymous caller also reported to police Green had been seen cleaning the car out. Green was arrested Feb. 1 and charged with tampering with physical evidence. He has been released on $1,000 bond. Lakeland police seized the Nissan and began to process it for evidence by LPD’s Crime Scene Unit. An unidentified witness told a Lakeland detective that Hanson had spoken to them about plans to go to Winter Haven to get a gun from Alex Greene, 21, according to an officer’s affidavit. The witness claimed Hanson referred to an “SRT,” a device that can be placed on pistols to convert them to fully automatic. The witnessed was previously a confidential source for the FBI who was deactivated because of a lack of contact. Cellphone records obtained by law enforcement show that Hanson and Greene had been in contact several times a day before and on the day of the shooting, police said. Taylor said officers think Greene modified and supplied the firearms used in the drive-by shooting. It’s suspected Greene was owed drug money and called on the others to perform a drive-by shooting, Taylor said. Greene was shot and killed Feb. 6 while attempting to elude police in a lengthy vehicle pursuit through Eagle Lake into Winter Haven. Sara-Megan Walsh can be reached at swalsh@theledger.com or 863-802-7545. Follow on Twitter @SaraWalshFl.