Tom Brady, the most successful quarterback in NFL history and one of the most accomplished athletes in the annals of any sport, announced Wednesday morning that he is retiring after 23 NFL seasons, including the past three with the Bucs. Brady, 45, amassed seven Super Bowl victories, including one with Tampa Bay, 10 appearances in the NFL’s championship game, five Super Bowl Most Valuable Player awards, three NFL MVP awards, more than 100,000 passing yards (including playoffs), 737 passing touchdowns (including playoffs) and enough league passing records to fill an encyclopedia. Here is what notables around the sports world and beyond are saying about the GOAT stepping away from football for what he says this time is “for good.” “Thanks for pushing me everyday this season mentally and physically to get back on the field. I’m glad I was able to take the field with you one last time! Enjoy retirement, don’t dog me too much in the booth. Love ya man!” — Bucs center Ryan Jensen • • • “Congrats to Tom Brady on an amazing career! Enjoy your retirement, you earned it!” — Former Bucs quarterback Brad Johnson • • • “Congrats Tom Brady on an unbelievable career. It was fun to watch!” — Baseball Hall of Famer Derek Jeter • • • “It was a pleasure watching you thrive in Tampa, Tom! Best of luck in whatever is next. And, no excuses now on that golf game!” — Former Bucs cornerback Ronde Barber, a finalist for the Hall of Fame • • • “Greatest of All Time. No question, no debate. It’s been an honor and a privilege. PS — The newly retired group meets on the golf course every morning at 10am. Drinks are on the new guy, so bring your wallet.” — Recently retired defensive end and J.J. Watt • • • “You only get one super emotional reaction to the goat retiring, and I used mine up. So I’ll just say this. Learning from you as a player, teammate, leader, son, brother, and father has been the experience of a lifetime. Love you buddy. PS. Pickleball partners?” — Former Patriots wide receiver Julian Edelman • • • “Forever a legend. Congratulations, Tom Brady.” — New England Patriots • • • “Congratulations Tom Brady on an incredible career & we enjoyed your time in #ChampaBay. See you in Canton in 5 years!” — Hall of Famer and former Bucs linebacker Derrick Brooks • • • “The GOAT will always be a part of our Champa Bay family. Thank you, Tom Brady, for the grit, spirit, and amazing memories. We’ll look for you on the golf course!” — Tampa Mayor Jane Castor • • • “Love you Thomas (heart emoji).” — Bucs running back Leonard Fournette • • • “Thank you for everything, Tom.” — Mike Evans Family Foundation • • • “Congrats Tom. Salute to the Greatest. #12″ — Broncos quarterback Russell Wilson • • • “(Three goat emojis)” — Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes • • • “Congrats it was a pleasure Im thankful & very grateful of all the things you taught me & just to play by your side.” — Bucs running back Rachaad White • • • “I got to witness greatness daily for years and I’m thankful for that Tom Brady.” — Bucs safety Logan Ryan • • • “The Golden Goat has called it a career.  Him now gone, Him legacy shall always remain. Congrats Thomas Edward Patrick Brady Jr. on dominating an entire era of football!” — Eagles center Jason Kelce • • • “It was a pleasure to share the same field as you Tom Brady, crazy moments we shared on that field!! Much love 12.” — Eagles safety C.J. Gardner-Johnson • • • “Tom shutting it down and I thought he should !! Enjoy your next chapter Goat! You Gave everything you had and It was better than anyone else’s in winning and Leading!!! Tom Brady=GOAT.” — ESPN analyst and former NFL defensive end Marcus Spears • • • “No finer American Irish football legend! I know the next chapter will continue your winning streak-Sláinte!” — Mixed martial artist Conor McGregor • • • “Should this morning’s retirement announcement truly be the end of Tom Brady’s illustrious career, 2028 is a year worth noting.” — Pro Football Hall of Fame, on Brady’s first year of eligibility • • • “As a fierce and passionate competitor, I can do nothing but respect Tom Brady for what he has done. Blessings!!!” — Saints running back Mark Ingram • • • “Thank you LEGEND” — Former NBA player Pau Gasol • • • “Cut his career in half and Tom Brady would make the NFL Hall of Fame TWICE.” — Former NFL receiver Donte Stallworth • • • “Sustained greatness. Whatever your passion or profession. SUSTAINED. Greatness. That’s what puts you in a very special category. That’s Tom Brady to me.” — ESPN analyst and former NFL safety Louis Reddick • • • “Thank you Tom Brady for always staying true to yourself, playing the game you love with such incredible passion and near perfection and reminding us all to never give up!” — ESPN SportsCenter anchor Linda Cohn • • • “I recognize those retirement emotions anywhere! Hell of a run Tom Brady. Welcome.” — College football analyst and former NFL defensive back Charles Woodson • • • “Thank you Tom Brady. I know how hard it is to walk away. You inspired everyone you worked with. You did it with conviction, work ethic & an unbridled competitive spirit that was second to none. It was an honor to compete against you, and THANK YOU for all you did for the game.” — CBS analyst and Hall of Fame coach Bill Cowher • • • “(Goat emoji)= Tom Brady” — Michigan football • • • “Best to ever do it (goat emoji).” — Angels outfielder Mike Trout • • • “You are a special one. Congrats on a great career. You will be written in the books as the greatest to ever play the game we love.” — Former Jets and Bucs cornerback and Hall of Fame finalist Darrelle Revis • • • “The Greatest To Ever Do It (three goat emojis).” — Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby • • • “Watching Tom Brady get choked up announcing his retirement nearly brought me to tears. We’ll miss you GOAT.” — Emmanuel Acho, former NFL linebacker • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.