TAMPA ― Head coach Todd Bowles referenced Dave Canales’ energy and passion Thursday in announcing that the Seahawks quarterbacks coach officially has been hired as the Bucs’ new offensive coordinator. Canales, 41, was among 10 candidates interviewed to replace Byron Leftwich, who was fired on Jan. 19. Canales had spent the entirety of his 13-year NFL coaching career working under Pete Carroll in Seattle, where he was steadily promoted through the ranks. “Dave has done a great job in a variety of roles with Seattle the past 13 years, and he brings a passion for coaching and an energy level that players just seem to respond to,” Bowles said in a statement. “He has played a significant part in the development and growth of many Seahawks players who have contributed to their offensive success over the past decade, and I look forward to seeing what he will do with our players on offense.” Bowles was disappointed in the Bucs ‘offensive approach under Leftwich. Tampa Bay ranked last in the NFL in rushing yards (1,308) and rushing average (3.4) last season. The Seahawks were tied for fifth in rushing average, with 4.8 yards per attempt. “The more we talked, the more it became apparent that we are very similar in how we approach the game,” Bowles said, “and I am confident that (Canales) will find a way to maximize our strengths on offense.” Canales expressed his excitement about joining the Bucs in a Tweet earlier in the day. “Let’s go Buccaneers!” he wrote. “Ready to get to work, get better every day and win some championships!  Thankful to be part of The Tampa Bay Buccaneers Nation!  Let’s Get It!” Canales thanked the Seahawks and their fans for their support over the years in a tweet late Wednesday night. “Humbled by my time with the Seahawks and honored to have worked with some of the best talent in the game,” he wrote. “Thank you to the players, coaches, administration and the 12s for the memories. Thrilled for what’s to come, absolutely. But in this moment, I’m thankful for 13 years!” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.