Florida State football coach Mike Norvell has signed a three-year contract extension that runs through the 2029 season and will average more than $8 million annually. Norvell is coming off a 10-3 third season with the Seminoles, capped off with a win over Oklahoma in the Cheez-It Bowl. FSU finished No. 11 nationally — its highest mark since 2016 — and will enter this season as one of the favorites in the ACC and a legitimate College Football Playoff contender. “Coach Norvell has reestablished a culture that the entire Seminole Family can appreciate,” athletic director Michael Alford said in a statement. “We are proud of the way Coach Norvell, his staff and his team represent Florida State University on and off the field. Under Coach Norvell’s leadership we have experienced the highest grade-point average in program history multiple times, an unprecedented impact in our community and drastic improvement on the football field through him establishing a foundation of unwavering standards in all areas. I’m happy that we are going to continue climbing with Coach Norvell for years to come.” Norvell’s new terms start this season. Instead of earning $4.75 million, as was promised in his original contract, he is due to make $5.8 million. By 2029, his full salary rises to $9.05 million. All figures include an annual $250,000 retention bonus. This is the second contract extension Norvell has signed at FSU; he signed the first after Year 2, which extended him through the 2026 season. His potential postseason bonuses max out at $950,000. They include $100,000 for a bowl appearance, $200,000 for making a New Year’s Six bowl, $250,000 for appearing in the first round of the College Football Playoff and go up to $950,000 for winning a national title. Norvell is 18-16 overall since the Seminoles hired him to replace Willie Taggart in December 2019. “I’m grateful for the trust our administration continues to place in me to lead the Florida State football program,” Norvell said in a statement. “President Richard McCullough, the Board of Trustees and Michael Alford have been important pieces in our success, and the alignment we have makes me excited for the future of this program. I appreciate their support and vision to continue our climb toward the top of college football.” • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.