TAMPA — Andrei Vasilevskiy said Thursday that wins, not shutouts, are most important to him when looking at his numbers. But it had never taken Vasilevskiy as long as it did this season to record his first shutout of the year. In his 38th start, the Lightning goaltender finally was rewarded with Thursday’s 5-0 victory over the Avalanche in the first meeting between the teams since last season’s Stanley Cup final. Vasilevskiy’s 25 regular-season shutouts since the beginning of the 2017-18 season were tied for second most among NHL goaltenders entering Friday. But Thursday’s 30-save performance was just his third shutout since the beginning of last season and his first in 85 regular-season games, dating to Nov. 26, 2021. “I’m glad that we won, so that’s the only thing that matters,” Vasilevskiy said after Thursday’s game. “Shutout or not a shutout, as long as we have that win, I don’t care.” The Lightning needed a win after dropping their first two games coming out of the All-Star break. And Vasilevskiy statistically had his worst outing of the season in his previous game, allowing a season-high seven goals against the Panthers on Monday in Sunrise. “We hung him out to dry in Florida,” coach Jon Cooper said. “And he sits there and hangs in there for seven (goals), and then to come back and get a shutout the next (start) against the defending champs, that’s having a mental makeup that’s pretty impressive. “So give that kid credit, because it wasn’t his fault what happened in Florida. Maybe one goal he would take back. But what a performance by him (Thursday) after rebounding from that Florida game.” Vasilevskiy kept the Avalanche scoreless with a pair of glove saves early in the game, first stopping forward J.T. Compher’s open shot from in front of the net in the first period, then snagging forward Matt Nieto’s breakaway wrister in the second. From there, the Lightning turned a one-goal lead into a rout, locking down Colorado in a third period in which they held the Avalanche to six shots on goal. “Obviously, we played well,” Vasilevskiy said. “Great goal support. I thought we played really well in the third. We gave them nothing, and we scored at the right time. Great win against a great team.” Entering the game, Vasilevskiy had allowed an opponent just one goal seven times this season, and in four of those games, he took a shutout into the third period. In the Lightning’s first game following the holiday break Dec. 28, Vasilevskiy held Montreal scoreless before allowing a goal to defenseman Kaiden Guhle with 2:39 remaining in a 4-1 home win. The Flyers ended Vasilevskiy’s shutout bid on forward Travis Konecny’s goal with 8:37 left in a 4-1 win Dec. 1 in Philadelphia. “I think for him, (the shutout Thursday is) a little bit of a weight off his shoulder,” said forward Alex Killorn. “He’s obviously one of the best goalies in the league. And I think when you look at the stats and stuff, you can say what you want. “He’s been a great guy for us. But for him, I think it’s going to be huge momentum going forward, and I know he’s happy about it.” Vasilevskiy’s teammates, who at times have left their goaltender on an island with bad turnovers and poor net coverage this season, were happy to finally get Vasilevskiy a shutout. There was a late scare. With just under four minutes remaining, a Brandon Hagel turnover gave Colorado a 2-on-1, but defenseman Zach Bogosian broke up a pass with his stick to halt the rush. “Obviously, we’ve let (Vasilevskiy) down a few times,” Hagel said. “I thought I was going to let them down there when I fell on my face. … I was looking at the ground and hoping I didn’t hear anything.” The last time Vasilevskiy recorded a regular-season shutout, it was his second in back-to-back starts. “Hopefully they come in bunches,” Cooper said. “He’s got a bunch of (shutouts), but it’s weird. Some years you get a bunch of them, and some years they get broken up late, and it’s happened to him a couple times this year, so it’s great for him to get that first one.” Notes: Lightning center Nick Paul is doubtful for Saturday afternoon’s game in Dallas, Cooper said. Paul was a pregame scratch Thursday and did not practice Friday before the team left for Texas. Center Brayden Point also did not skate Friday. He was given a body maintenance day, Cooper said. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.