What’s ‘New’ is ‘Old’ Former education commissioner Richard Corcoran in line to lead New College | Feb. 1 I “woke” up this morning and had a progressive idea to rename New College of Florida. We should give it a creative new name that better reflects Florida’s emphasis on free thought and innovation. So let’s now call it “Old College”! Tom Fillion, Tampa Santa on the lam Police test DNA to see if Santa is real | Jan. 31 Santa has got to feel lucky today that he got away with breaking and entering throughout the world without getting cuffed, tazed, beaten or shot to death last December. Peter M. Barton, St. Petersburg A hostile takeover ‘Indoctrination’ targeted | Feb. 1 Now that the election is over, the mask comes off. I shudder to think what a Gov. Ron DeSantis-approved civics class would look like. This is not “academic excellence.” It’s a hostile takeover of education by a far-right minority. It’s pure doublespeak when our governor accuses schools of indoctrination, while using the power of his office to establish his own brand of conservative religious indoctrination. His naked ambition and authoritarian tendencies are now visible for all to see. While he bellows “freedom” at every public appearance, he systematically undermines the very institutions that protect it. I think that DeSantis is a clear and present danger to education and, ultimately, democracy. Diane Love, St. Petersburg Limited government ‘Indoctrination’ targeted | Feb. 1 In his package of reforms for Florida higher education, Gov. Ron DeSantis proposes to develop courses and curriculum that can be used to educate the next generation on the values of liberty and constitutionalism. Let’s remember that constitutionalism — often associated with the political theories of the 17th century English philosopher John Locke — is the idea that government can and should be legally limited in its powers. Sharon Smith, Land O’ Lakes’ Not really indoctrinated ‘Indoctrination’ targeted | Feb. 1 If the “leftist” teachers Gov. Ron DeSantis is so afraid of were actually successful in indoctrinating students in the past, there would be no radical right in Florida. Russell Patterson, Tampa