LAKE BUENA VISTA — The Rays addressed the three major rules changes that Major League Baseball unveiled this week. With pitchers and catchers in camp, they went over the new pitch times as a group in the morning. In the afternoon, manager Kevin Cash and his staff were hoping to get clarification on some of the intricacies of the rules from Michael Hill, MLB’s senior vice president of on-field operations. “I don’t think there is anything new,” Cash said Friday morning at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex. “They might answer some questions that have come up over the last month or so, but nothing new.” Hill was meeting with managers and staff of teams in Florida this week, Cash said. The pitch timer will limit the time a pitcher has to deliver the ball to 15 seconds, or 20 if there is a runner on base. It requires a hitter to be in the box and “alert to the pitch” with eight seconds to go on the pitch clock. The rule also limits the number of times a pitcher can “disengage,” with two pickoff attempts or times stepping off the rubber to reset. The rule was used in the minors last season, so the Rays are bringing in minor-league umpires to work their live batting practices this spring. The other rule change that likely will generate a lot of questions when position players begin official workouts next week is the ban of the shift. Two infielders have to be on either side of second base when a pitch is delivered. The third change is enlarging the bases from 15 square inches to 18, which should encourage more steals and be safer for players. Try it again for Trevor Kelley After announcing that they had selected Trevor Kelley’s contract Thursday and added him to the 40-man roster, the Rays had to walk that back Friday. MLB voided the move because non-roster players cannot be added until March 15. It also meant that right-hander Andrew Kittredge, who is coming off Tommy John surgery, is not yet on the 60-man roster. Both moves are still expected to happen. “I’ve gone through a lot in this game and just seen adversity on multiple different levels, but this is where I want to be and now it feels good that I know they want me here, too,” Kelley said. “But it doesn’t really change anything. I never feel comfortable. I don’t think you can. When you think you’re in, you’re out. When you think you’re out, you’re in somehow and that’s, that’s how I see it and I’m staying hungry. “I’ve always had like a ‘back against a wall’ mentality is how I’ve made a career so I just think it puts me in a position where I just want to work harder and get results even faster.” Kelley pitched to a 6.08 ERA in 23.2 innings for the Brewers last season. Fan Fest details The Rays’ Fan Fest is from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday at Tropicana Field with free parking and admission, though a mobile ticket is required via the MLB Ballpark app or raysbaseball.com. Among the events are several panel discussions, including team presidents Brian Auld and Matt Silverman (11:10-11:30), a 25-year look back featuring longtime broadcaster Dewayne Staats (1:40-2) and with Cash and general manager Peter Bendix (2:10-2:30). Miscellany Among the position players arriving early Friday was top hitting prospect Kyle Manzardo. The lefty-swinging first baseman powered his way from High Class A to Double A last season with a .327/.426/1.043 slash line and 22 home runs in 93 games. Also joining the workouts was outfielder Luke Raley, who will be competing for a bench spot this spring. … Cash mentioned Rule-5 draft pick Kevin Kelly and Kyle Crick as two of the pitchers in camp who have caught his eye so far. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.