The most inspiring moment of the Super Bowl did not take place on the field. It did not happen during the halftime show, or on any of the million-dollar commercials. The most inspiring moment came later when few of us were paying attention. Standing in front of his locker after committing a penalty that helped lead to Kansas City’s 38-35 victory, a 29-year-old cornerback for the Eagles reminded America what integrity looks like. What responsibility means. How honesty matters. In an era when everyone points at their neighbor as a cause of their heartache, and in a land where it’s become common to pretend a loss is not a loss, James Bradberry refused to hide, obfuscate or deny. “I pulled the jersey, they called holding,” Bradberry said when asked to explain what happened on the crucial play. “I was hoping they would let it ride, but it was holding.” Bradberry did not complain, nor did he make excuses. He did not throw questions back at reporters, he did not blame game officials. In a soft, sturdy voice he reminded the world what accountability once looked like in this country. He didn’t have to do that, you know. Few would have blamed him if he shifted the responsibility for the loss to an overzealous referee. The infraction he committed looked fairly innocuous, and Fox analyst Greg Olsen seemed to speak for a lot of impartial fans when he said, “I don’t love that call.” It’s generally accepted that game officials should be discerning with their decisions during the final moments of big games. That doesn’t mean ignoring an obvious call. You can’t disregard the rules of the game just because the clock is winding down. But not all penalties or fouls or balks or cross checks are created the same. It’s sort of the difference between getting a ticket because you were going 6 miles over the speed limit, as opposed to 16 miles over the speed limit. And what Bradberry did would not have lit up a cop’s radar gun. With the scored tied and the Chiefs facing a third down on the Philadelphia 15 with 1:52 remaining, Bradberry briefly tugged on the jersey of receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster as he made a cut toward the end zone. Was it holding? Probably, by the letter of the law. Were there more blatant penalties that went uncalled during the game? Without a doubt. A defensive holding penalty comes with an automatic first down, so the Chiefs were able to intentionally run down the clock. It was basically the difference between the Eagles having only 8 seconds to tie the score, as opposed to 1:45 if the penalty was not called. “The defender grabbed the jersey with his right hand and restricted him from (running his route). So, therefore, we called defensive holding,” referee Carl Cheffers told a pool reporter afterward. “It was a clear case of a jersey grab that caused restriction.” A clear case? That’s certainly debatable. But that’s not a suggestion that the referees were at fault for Philadelphia’s loss. There were a dozen other key moments that could have, or did, change the trajectory of that game. I’m also not suggesting it was incompetence or maliciousness or any other pejorative description. The game is played at a high speed, and a split-second call by an official is no different than a quarterback who throws into double coverage or a linebacker making a helmet-to-helmet hit. It’s part of the human element that makes sports compelling. My point is that Bradberry understands all of that. And he had enough dignity and character to acknowledge he put himself — and his team — in a risky situation by grabbing a receiver’s jersey. “That’s not up (to me),” Bradberry said, when asked if he thought the penalty was too benign to call. “I was hoping he would let it go but, of course, he’s the ref. It’s a big game, but it was a hold. They called it.” Maybe I’ve seen too many athletes, politicians and columnists try to bluff, bully or run from their losses or mistakes, but something about Bradberry’s noble response touched me. Over the years, my son has often asked me about my favorite players or coaches. I’ve tried to explain to him that, in my job, it can be problematic to have favorites. If he asks today, I may have a different answer. John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.