The Sunshine State seems to attract more national attention these days than I ever recall growing up in Tampa. But one major issue with significant stakes for both national and state interests is mostly flying under the radar: the relatively subdued, yet critically important, debate in Washington over whether to replace the F-35 fighter jet engine with an entirely new propulsion system. The scarcity of public attention on this crucial national security decision with implications for local industry comes at Florida’s expense. For the nation, it’s important because F-35s are the world’s premier stealth fighter jet and they are made in America. The Air Force, Navy and Marines each fly different versions of the jet that are unique to the threat environments in which they operate. F-35s are also currently flown by 14 allies via direct partnership or the Foreign Military Sales program. This is important since partnerships create economies of scale and enhance security cooperation. The list of countries asking to purchase the jets grows each year and now includes Germany, Finland, Switzerland and Thailand. As a result, in addition to burdening the U.S. military with distinctive, costly and complex supply and maintenance chains to maintain fleets of old and new F-35, our global partners would be similarly hampered if the new system is approved. Were that not bad enough, the roughly $6 billion in anticipated costs for the engine replacement, dubbed AETP or Adaptive Engine Transition Program, would mean at least 70 fewer F-35s made for the U.S. military, according to Air Force Secretary Frank Kendall last year. Never mind defense official reports that suggest the replacement propulsion system is suitable only for the Air Force F-35A. Floridians should take particular interest in this issue because the current F135 engine, used in F-35 jets, is made in Palm Beach County — bringing billions of dollars to the state economy and, by extension, state coffers. Should these engines be replaced beginning in 2027, as some in the defense industry, military and Congress are attempting to accomplish, the manufacturing plant in Jupiter would likely close, dealing a devastating blow to local industry and putting many in the state out of work. Moreover, since F-35s are flown by the active-duty Air Force out of Eglin Air Force Base, as well as the Florida Air National Guard out of Jacksonville, replacing the current engines with an entirely new system would mean two different supply chains and myriad logistical headaches. How could anyone not think this was a waste of time and money at a moment when resources are better spent on more important tasks? Innovation is clearly important to maintain and augment F-35 superiority, particularly since the fighter jets became operational in the mid-2000s. But it makes more sense to upgrade current engines, as was done with past aircraft, than replace them altogether. Plans to do just that with a proposed Enhanced Engine Package would achieve the same ends in terms of benefits to improved thrust, engine cooling and fuel efficiency but at a fraction of the cost. Plus, with an expected jet lifespan of about 30 years, it doesn’t make sense to swap engines at the midpoint of a jet’s anticipated lifespan. Changing propulsion systems midstream would constitute a colossal waste of taxpayer money and a significant inconvenience. Upgrades to existing engine technologies involve fewer risks and continued interoperability, both of which are necessary to maximize the F-35′s alliance-based defeat and deter capabilities. Approving a full-scale replacement program at this juncture would be bad for Floridians, wasteful for Americans and harmful to key allies at a moment when their focus should be on regional and global threats. Compromising America’s security preparedness by complicating global partnerships and wasting taxpayer dollars isn’t attention that any U.S. official wants or needs. Policymakers on both sides of the aisle should sound the alarm and oppose this costly public policy proposal before a final decision is made. And if they don’t, Floridians should stand up and make their voices heard. Ivan Sascha Sheehan is the associate dean of the College of Public Affairs and past executive director of the School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Baltimore. Opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Twitter @ProfSheehan