Much has been said about saving money and cutting wasteful government programs in Florida, where concerned legislators, led by an ambitious governor, look for ways to jettison superfluous programs from an annual state budget that exceeds $110 billion. Yet, the state budget increased spending by over 8% last year while its population grew by less than 2%. Being fiscally responsible about taxpayers’ funds is commendable, but sometimes voters should consider the implications of eliminating programs that might benefit their communities. One such program, eliminated by a gubernatorial veto, cost the state $1 million annually (less than a tenth of 1% of the budget) but delivered enormous returns to the communities it served. The Martin Luther King Jr. “Day of Service” grants were available for seven years, first in Hillsborough and Pinellas counties, and later in Broward County. The project was sponsored by state Sen. Darryl Rouson, D-St. Petersburg, and developed in Hillsborough County by Joan Holmes Mosley and Samuel Lamar Wright Sr. In 2019-2020, its last year, 33 organizations, ranging from church groups to fraternities and sororities and nonprofits, received a total of $123,000. They spanned the county from Wimauma and Ruskin to Plant City, Temple Terrace and Tampa. In-kind contributions amounted to $190,000, and cash contributions approached $64,000. Nearly 3,000 volunteers contributed more than 13,400 hours of their time (including 1,621 students), and the projects served more than 10,000 people, including 2,314 students and 232 veterans. The average amount of money awarded to grant recipients in Hillsborough County was $3,700. Projects were eclectic and included the provision of school supplies to children; food to supplement needy families; academic guidance and training for aspiring college-bound students of color; companionship for older people and an annual community interfaith celebration. Project outcomes were not always amenable to standard evaluation measures — planting and reaping the seeds sown by some projects might take years, but if only one participant was inspired to pursue a life of community service or a professional career, and this indisputably occurred, the project was exceptionally successful. The question is then, why was the MLK Day of Service project eliminated? Saving a small amount of money in the cause of fiscal responsibility might seem to justify this action in the short term, but the long-term divestment of such funds in the affected communities is incalculable and devastating. Requests for projects are still being received. We can take the governor’s rationalization for such frugality at face value, or we can consider his action in the larger context of prejudicial attacks against minority communities as the real justification for his behavior. His recent rejection of the much-heralded Advanced Placement course on African American studies, his attempt to eliminate diversity, equity and inclusion programs from state universities, the National Hockey League and private corporations such as Disney, as well as his campaign against transgender individuals and his attempted destruction of the liberal and highly regarded New College, which is LGBTQ-friendly, are further indications of his animus against minorities. But Republicans in the Florida Legislature share in the blame for this myopic approach that threatens to drag our state back into the pre-civil rights era. After the governor’s much-publicized and criticized transportation of immigrants from Texas to Florida and then to Massachusetts, the Legislature allocated an additional $12 million of taxpayers’ money to transport undocumented immigrants to states that recognize their humanity and will provide essential services to them. It is time Florida voters recognize the mean-spirited backwardness of these assaults on minorities in this state and the inhumanity, bias and folly of such gambits, and elect people who reflect values that represent the best interest of the state and all the people who live in it, now and in the future. H. Roy Kaplan was the executive director of The National Conference of Christians and Jews for Tampa Bay. He is the chairperson of the Hillsborough County Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Interfaith Committee and is the author of “American Indians at the Margins: Racist Stereotypes and Their Impacts on Native Peoples.”