TAMPA — Ian Albert strode into the booth-filled room searching for a career, not a job. “I’m willing to work my way up from the bottom,” said the 26-year-old Lutz resident in freshly shined shoes. He was among the first people to arrive at the Florida Department of Transportation-organized fair, an effort to introduce job seekers to a career in construction and connect with more than 20 local contractors. The event, held Tuesday morning in partnership with the city of Tampa and Hillsborough County, is part of the department’s OnBoard Tampa Bay project, which aims to build a pipeline of local labor to support the $6 billion in road and bridge construction projects currently underway in the Tampa Bay area. “For every five workers that are retiring from the construction industry right now, only one new worker is coming into the industry,” David Gwynn, department secretary overseeing Citrus, Hernando, Hillsborough, Pasco and Pinellas counties, said in a recent interview. “How do we connect people who want to work with the work that’s out there?” Upon arriving at the Tampa River Center in the city’s Julian B. Lane Riverfront Park, Albert was ushered into the “Intro to Construction room,” as local Florida Department of Transportation consultant Alice Price dubbed it. “The idea was to offer useful information in a nonintimidating environment to set them up for success at the fair,” Price said Tuesday, behind her large screens flashing with current department projects in the area. “Information about career paths, resume help, interview techniques.” Albert, currently a self-employed operations manager, said he doesn’t have direct experience in the construction industry. “Those skills are transferable,” Price told him with a smile. At a booth in one corner of the room stood Cristy Ward, recruitment manager at CWR Contracting, the company involved in resurfacing work along State Road 60 among other work. “We’re hiring for everything right now,” she said. “There are so many projects.” Across the room, project director Greg Figler handed out pamphlets for Lane Construction, whose projects include the $223.5 million widening of the Interstate 275 and Interstate 4 interchange in downtown Tampa. “There are young people who just want an opportunity to get started, and also those who are older looking to pivot into the industry,” he said. In an effort to deliver lasting workforce solutions, OnBoard Tampa Bay is also collaborating with community-based organizations to identify and address barriers hindering job seekers from accessing job opportunities, Gwynn said. A lack of grassroots partnership is “a challenge FDOT has faced in the past,” he recently told the Tampa Bay Times. Weaving through the crowds Tuesday morning was local change agent Chloe Coney, who spent 10 years as U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor’s district director and decades more working locally in economic development. Tuesday’s event, she said, was a welcome change from years of community concerns being overlooked. “You’re building all these highways, but you’re not hiring people in their shadows,” she said. She praised Secretary Gwynn’s commitment to bringing community groups and contractors together to drive lasting economic change: “The goal is to keep a person in a job, to see them succeed and turn it into a career.” She’d just finished chatting with a man who told her he’d heard about OnBoard Tampa Bay in December while in prison. “Now it’s February and he’s here,” she said. “That blesses my heart.” Among the other job seekers milling around the event space Tuesday was Augustine Ajagbe, a 45-year-old Tampa resident with over a decade of warehouse experience who currently works odd jobs. “Now, I’m looking for stability,” he said, clutching an armload of promotional flyers collected from contractor booths. “I am a father of nine. They are my motivation.” One day he’d like to earn enough to send remittances back to his mother and siblings in Nigeria, he said. And with that he walked out of the fair, heading to a local library to print his resume and so he could submit it to a contractor he’d just met.