TAMPA — The professional path he has forged is littered with lineup cards, most of them a scribbled mess of pinch-hitters, pitching changes and position switches. USF softball coach Ken Eriksen, one of his sport’s veteran savants, has been known to strategize to a fault. But when determining a starting pitcher for last Thursday’s season opener against Michigan, the former U.S. Olympic coach cast aside matchups, moxie and major-college experience, and left the decision to chance. “I put seven numbers in a hat,” Eriksen said before later correcting himself (he put in only six). “I am not lying to you. I put (six) numbers in a hat and, bam! No. 6 came out. ... That’s where you’re at.” That spontaneous-raffle winner, left-handed redshirt freshman Payton Dixon (who wears No. 6), shook off early jitters and one leadoff walk, allowing four hits and one unearned run in six innings before a USF Softball Stadium crowd of 1,506. The Bulls prevailed, 2-1 when sophomore Hallie Bryant scored from third on a wild pitch in the eighth inning. By then, Eriksen had used two other pitchers, including one — senior right-hander Antoinette Hill — with two out and a runner on third in the bottom of the eighth. Hill forced a ground-out on her only pitch. “I think you’ll see situational pitching (this season),” Eriksen said. Welcome to the most transitional phase of USF softball in nearly a decade. “It’s definitely going to be a group effort; there’s not just one (pitcher),” Dixon said. The Bulls, whose record book is rife with indefatigable — and sometimes unhittable — aces, lost their most decorated one ever when right-hander Georgina Corrick’s eligibility was exhausted following the 2022 season. A four-time American Athletic Conference Pitcher of the Year, Corrick exited as USF’s all-time leader in victories (113), strikeouts (1,302), starts (142), shutouts (55) and complete games (103), among other career and season records. In 2022, she became the first triple-crown winner in NCAA history, leading the nation in wins (37), strikeouts (418) and ERA (0.51). Excluding the pandemic-shortened 2020 season, the Bulls reached the NCAA tournament all four seasons with Corrick in the circle. “You have to address the (elephant) in the room, right?” Eriksen said. “And it’s like, ‘OK, it’s after George. So what are we going to do right here?’ “And we know we have talented pitchers. But then everybody kind of forgot that George was in the same situation as Payton Dixon and (true freshmen) Jaden Martinez and Morgan Grubb coming in, and she had to start to get those innings in and figure it out and do those type of things.” Which is to say, this is hardly Eriksen’s first rodeo. Throughout his 25-season tenure, the former Bulls baseball standout has segued successfully from one ace or another. In 2000, the year after eventual USF Athletics Hall of Famer Monica Triner departed, the Bulls won 41 games. In 2001, they reached the NCAAs. Similarly, the Bulls made the NCAAs the two years during and after the staggering run (2003-2004) of Leigh Ann Ellis. And only two seasons after Pinellas Park left-hander Sara Nevins’ Hall of Fame career ended, USF went 45-16 and again reached the postseason. “So I feel good about in a couple of years, let’s talk about, ‘OK, there’s the next guy,’” said Eriksen, whose 2-3 club competes in this weekend’s 16-team Clearwater Invitational at Eddie C. Moore Complex. “But I think at this point right now, I think I can easily say the next two guys could be in the same sense, and we haven’t had that since Sara Nevins and Lindsey Richardson (from 2011-2013). So when you have those two — and not just one — going, it makes it a lot easier to go through a 56-game schedule.” Just which arm — or pair of arms — emerges remains uncertain. In his team’s first five games, Eriksen used seven pitchers and three different starters. Dixon has made the best initial impression so far, following her 91-pitch gem against Michigan with a complete-game one-hitter in a 4-0 victory against Saint Joseph’s three days later. Martinez, who starred for Chiles High in Tallahassee, hasn’t allowed a run in two appearances spanning 6⅓ innings. And while 6-foot-1 senior Gabriella Nori has struggled in a pair of starts (allowing eight earned runs and 12 hits in 7⅓ innings), her collegiate resume is solid. A Lehigh transfer, Nori went 12-12 with a 3.27 ERA last season for the Mountain Hawks, recording 121 strikeouts in 132⅔ innings and leading her team to the NCAA tournament. “Obviously, I think the legacy that George left is going to be here forever,” Bulls senior outfielder Meghan Sheehan said. “She really, really left her mark. But I have all the faith in the world in our pitching staff. I feel like they will give us the best shot to win. I feel great about it.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls. Clearwater Invitational Where: Eddie C. Moore Complex, Clearwater When: Thursday-Sunday Teams: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Duke, FSU, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi State, Nebraska, Oklahoma State, Texas A&M, UCF, UCLA, USF, Virginia Tech Tickets: $35 per day; tickets may be purchased at clearwaterinvitational.com/tickets/ All games televised (or streamed) on an ESPN network. Click here for schedule/broadcast information. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.