LAKE BUENA VISTA — Ben Gamel, to be candid about it, was hoping for a better offer. But when spring camps opened last week and there were no major-league deals to be had, he and Tampa-based agent B.B. Abbott started considering options for a minor-league contract. Having played parts of seven seasons in the majors, Gamel, 30, was well acquainted with the Rays’ success. He liked the potential to be relatively close to the Jacksonville area, where he was born, raised and still lives. He asked around and heard good things about Tampa Bay’s culture and manager Kevin Cash. And his wife, Lauren, is from Indian Rocks Beach. “(The Rays) were kind of the first team my agent threw out there,” Gamel said. “And my wife heard it and was like, ‘Yeah, that’s where we want to be.’” Gamel will have to earn a job, competing with at least two other lefty-hitting outfielders, Josh Lowe and Luke Raley, for a spot on the 26-man roster. In spending most of 2021-22 with Pittsburgh, Gamel hit .242 with 17 homers, 72 RBIs and a .720 OPS in 226 games. “His bat is probably his driver,” Cash said. “It’s certainly a nice option to talk about. Let’s see how it plays out once we get him in the games.” To increase Gamel’s appeal, and potentially roster versatility, the Rays also plan to give him some work at first base, where he has played a handful of times. “I’m very grateful for the opportunity,” Gamel said. “I’m gonna do whatever I can. I’m gonna do the little things. I’m gonna play hard. That’s really the only guarantee I can do — I’m gonna play hard.” Game time The Rays start a 30-game exhibition schedule on Saturday, facing the Twins in Fort Myers. The travel will be tough at times because the schedule was drafted before damage from Hurricane Ian forced the Rays from their Port Charlotte base, with camp based at Disney through Tuesday, then shifting to Tropicana Field. For example, they play in Fort Myers today and Sunday (Red Sox), at Sarasota (Orioles) Monday, at Disney (Yankees) Tuesday and at North Port (Braves) Wednesday before their first true home game on Thursday. Between the schedule and 12 players leaving in early March for the World Baseball Classic, lineups will be more disjointed than usual. Bigger names slated to play Saturday include Francisco Mejia, Harold Ramirez, Isaac Paredes and Josh Lowe, with Josh Fleming pitching in relief. Cash said Randy Arozarena, Yandy Diaz, Wander Franco, Brandon Lowe and Manuel Margot won’t go to Fort Myers but are scheduled to play in Sarasota. Still, it’s game time. “Anytime you’re competing against another team — albeit getting ready for a season, the real competition — I think it’s a good thing,” Cash said. Medical matters Three players have been sidelined at the start of camp by injury: infielder Taylor Walls (oblique), and relievers Shawn Armstrong (neck) and Calvin Faucher (oblique). Faucher is closest to action, as he is playing catch. ... Outfielder Jose Siri was sick and missed Friday’s workout but is expected to play Sunday. Eflin takes first turn Free-agent addition Zach Eflin threw his first live batting practice, and while the light blue jersey was “a little bit different” after eight years in Phillies red, everything else seemed normal. “I felt good out there,” he said. “I felt really good with (catcher Christian Bethancourt) back there; we were on the same page. Just doing my best to throw some strikes early in camp.” Eflin said he stresses health over performance in spring training, with the goal of being strong for October. He threw with a brace on his previously surgically repaired right knee, as he did in the second half of last year, and plans to continue for now even though he doesn’t feel he needs it. “It’s more so just an extra little layer of support,” he said. Miscellany Bally Sports Sun will provide TV coverage of nine spring games, all at home, starting with the March 2 game against the Twins. Also being shown are games on March 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 22, 24. ... Tuesday’s game vs. the Yankees at Disney is expected to be sold out. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.