Two Clearwater fire medics have been suspended from treating patients while officials review reports that they incorrectly declared a patient deceased, delaying his medical care. Fire medics Jacob Rivero and Sebastian Pickens have been placed on administrative duty while the county and Clearwater Fire & Rescue investigate. Clearwater Fire & Rescue received a call about 10 a.m. on Feb. 15 after a man suffered a cardiac arrest at a private residence in an unincorporated part of the county, fire and rescue officials said. Rivero and Pickens were sent to the scene. According to initial reports, the fire medics declared the man dead shortly after they arrived, fire and rescue said. The fire medics left after deputies with the the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office arrived. The man was identified as 66-year-old Thomas Maxwell, according to a sheriff’s office spokesperson. One of the deputies noticed that the man was still breathing and called for medical first responders, according to Clearwater Fire & Rescue. Largo Fire Rescue crews were sent to the scene and arrived at about 10:28 a.m., at which point they began responding to the patient. He was taken to the hospital and remained there as of this week, Clearwater officials said. The fire medics are under review by both Pinellas County Emergency Medical Services and Clearwater Fire & Rescue. They have been placed on administrative duty and cannot currently provide patient care. “Upon notification of this incident, we immediately removed both fire medics from their normal duties and discontinued their abilities to provide patient care, in conjunction with the county’s medical director,” Fire Chief Scott Ehlers said in a statement. “On behalf of the city, I apologize for the actions and the inactions of our crew during this incident. We have strict policies and procedures in place that were not followed, according to our preliminary review. These two did not perform to the standard of care that our citizens expect and deserve. We will address this incident swiftly.” Interim Clearwater city manager Jennifer Poirrier echoed Ehlers’ remarks. “Our first responders proudly serve our community each and every day, and they are expected to help people when they need it the most,” Poirrier said in a statement. “When this does not occur at the level at which we expect, it is incumbent upon us to determine exactly what happened, why it happened, and then ensure it will never happen again.”