LAKE BUENA VISTA — Tyler Glasnow took the mound Wednesday for his first live batting practice session of the spring, and manager Kevin Cash could feel for those standing 60 feet, 6 inches away. “It’s like the worst 10 minutes of a hitter’s life having to stand in there for live BP,” Cash said. Though Cash has seen Glasnow dominate on big stages, he was still impressed by the 20-pitch showing on a back field at Disney’s ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex. “He looked really, really sharp,” Cash said. “Filled up the strike zone. Breaking ball was incredibly sharp, both of them, curveball and slider. He looked like a guy that has probably thrown 10 bullpens, and now he graduated to live BP. It’s electric stuff. “Every hitter, certainly our young hitters, that come back (after facing Glasnow), it’s OK to be wowed by it because it’s pretty special stuff.” Glasnow, who returned in September from Tommy John surgery, was pleased with his showing, saying he was eager after offseason work and multiple bullpen sessions for the next step. “I’ve been wanting to face hitters for a while, so it’s exciting and I had some extra oomph, I suppose,” he said. “I felt very in rhythm and had good timing.” Gamel becomes 81st player in camp Unsuccessful in acquiring a proven lefty-handed impact bat, the Rays have added to their list of lesser options. The latest is outfielder Ben Gamel, a veteran of seven big-league seasons, who will finalize a minor-league deal on Thursday after passing a physical. Gamel, 30, spent all of last season and most of 2021 with the Pirates, hitting .242 with 17 homers, 72 RBIs and a .720 OPS in 226 games. He played previously with the Yankees, Mariners, Brewers and Cleveland. He has a career .253 average and .717 OPS. Josh Lowe, a former top prospect seeking to break through, and Luke Raley, who has only 144 big-league plate appearances, are the primary returning lefty-hitting candidates. Jonathan Aranda, who plays infield, could be another. The addition of Gamel seems designed to provide depth, especially in a situation where Lowe makes the opening-day roster and Raley, who is out of options, is traded or claimed on waivers. Gamel’s addition will push the Rays’ camp roster to 81. Call him Chef Brady Cash is sharing a house with several of the coaches for the two-week Disney camp, and one benefit has been the cuisine provided by new third-base coach (and former Triple-A manager) Brady Williams. “He’s the best cook in camp,” Cash said. “He’s great. … We’ve had sea bass, we’ve had tuna, I think he’s had salmon. We’ve done steaks. It’s impressive. “And he’s really into the presentation. You’re not going up there and (just) getting your plate. … The plates are perfect — it’s the fish, the spinach underneath it. Then the polenta or the rice or mashed potatoes underneath it, and it’s drizzled with sauce. It’s very impressive.” Who handles clean up? “I do the dishes enough,” Cash said. “We try to get (new Durham manager) Michael Johns to do it, but he goes to sleep.” Miscellany Cash was pleased with the energy in and quality of infield drills, noting Aranda, who was at second base, “looked very good, like he made some improvements and adjustments to his defense.” … Yandy Diaz and Isaac Paredes both got extensive work at first. … Rule 5 pick Kevin Kelly and non-roster pitchers Josh Roberson and Ben Heller also caught Cash’s eye. … New senior advisor Jon Daniels, hired in November after 17 seasons leading the Rangers front office, reported to camp. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.