Ryan Lynge started with just one step and pushed himself to go farther. The 34-year old Tampa resident doesn’t love running. In fact, the whole time he’s out there he’s just trying to finish. Fighting for that next step is how Lynge got himself to the starting line for the Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic 8K. Almost a year and a half ago, Lynge was 370 pounds, struggling to walk half a day around Universal Studios and worrying about his family, the example he was setting for his then-5-year old daughter and his future. This weekend, he will step to that starting line 146 pounds lighter and looking to run farther than he ever has before. But first he had to figure out his first step. “I sort of sat in my misery for a couple months and just one day got up and looked in the mirror and told myself, ‘You’ve got to stop making excuses. ... You’ve got a 5-year-old, you’ve got a wife, you’ve got a house, you’ve got a career, you need to change something,” Lynge said he told himself. “Your daughter is not going to see you grow old. ... You’re not going to be around when your daughter has a job.” So Lynge took that step; a slow walk at first just to get his body moving. “I did 20 minutes in the morning ... finally completed my first mile walking and then I got to the point where I was walking 2 miles in the morning and then going for a mile walk at night,” Lynge said. “I started extending the night walk, and then about August of this past year I felt like I was at the point where I could start jogging.” Lynge used an app to guide him as he built up from a short jog to running a 5-kilometer race. “I really struggled running, but all the while I continued to lose weight. I started running more and more, and I got to the point where I was able to run a full 5K on my own,” he said. “The past couple months, my wife and I have been talking. I was like, ‘I really think I should do a race. I’ve never done one before.’ I was looking at all these 5K races …. and my wife’s like, ‘You should register for something more than just a 5K.’ I was like, ‘Are you nuts? Like, I’ve never I’ve never run more than 3.1 miles ever.’” But the more Lynge thought about it, he realized his wife was right. This whole process began with challenging himself to do more than he was comfortable doing. He started with one step and pushed himself to do more. As he’s gone through his journey, he’s become a fan of David Goggins, an ultramarathon runner, ultra-distance cyclist, triathlete, public speaker and author. “One of his things is, don’t just shoot to accomplish what you can accomplish; be uncommon and push yourself,” Lynge said. “I saw the ad for the Gasparilla race on Facebook, and I thought why not try it?” Lynge first emailed the race organizers, telling them of his weight-loss journey. “I was like, ‘Hey, I’ve never run this far before. I don’t want to be the last person across the finish line or kicked off the course or anything like that. And she put me at ease and encouraged me to register,” Lynge said. “So I registered for it, and right after I registered for it I hit (the) 140-pounds loss (mark).” Lynge looks at Gasparilla as a challenge, a milestone and — when it’s over — a celebration. “I like running — when I finish,” he said with a laugh. “That first mile I question why I’m even doing this, because I’m miserable. I hate it. I get into that second mile and I’m like, OK, cool. I’ve got my pace. I’ve got my breath and my heart rate is stable, and we’re good to go. And then I get into that last quarter-mile and I’m just like, ‘Oh, God, I really want to stop.’ “But I just pick a milestone out in front of me, like, ‘OK, I gotta get to that stop sign,’ or ‘Hey, let me get to that next street.’ And just keep doing that until I finish. They talk about runner’s high and endorphins, but for me it’s a sense of accomplishment. This is something every time that I do it, I don’t think I’m going to be able to finish, and then I just keep pushing, I get it and I just feel super amazing.” When he’s done, he will see his wife, Samantha, and his now-6-year old daughter, Audrey. Ultimately, Lynge took that first step for his family so he can be there as his daughter grows up. He hopes that from his experience she’ll learn the value of exercise and taking care of herself. And one more thing. “It’s never too late to change and make yourself better,” Lynge said, “and to not give up.” Publix Gasparilla Distance Classic Saturday-Sunday, downtown Tampa Saturday: 15K, 6:45 a.m. (starts at Brorein and Franklin streets); 5K, 9:15 (starts at Brorein and Ashley streets) Sunday: Half-marathon, 6 a.m. (starts at Platt Street and Bayshore Boulevard); 8K, 9:15 (starts at Bayshore Boulevard and Verne Street) Health and Fitness Expo: Tampa Convention Center, 10 a.m.-8 p.m. Friday, 6 a.m.-3 p.m. Saturday More info: For registration, road closures (which will start at 2:30 a.m. and end around 1 p.m. both days) and more, visit rungasparilla.com.