The company that owns Bally Sports-branded regional sports networks, which carry Rays and Lightning games locally, appears on the brink of filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Does that mean bay area fans are on the brink of a TV blackout? Not necessarily, despite some ominous developments. Diamond Sports Group, which owns and operates Bally Sports, announced Wednesday morning it won’t make a $140 million interest payment that was due Wednesday and has opted to enter a 30-day grace period that is expected to lead into a bankruptcy filing. The fallout, however, may not be as fatalistic as it seems on the surface. Though neither the Rays nor Lightning have said much publicly to this point, we’ll answer what we can regarding this fluid situation. What is the Diamond Sports Group? It owns 19 regional sports networks under the Bally Sports banner, including Bally Sports Sun and Bally Sports Florida. Those networks have the rights to 42 professional teams: 14 baseball (including the Rays), 16 NBA and 12 NHL (including the Lightning). Sinclair Broadcast Group, which owns Diamond, bought the regional sports networks from Walt Disney Company at auction for roughly $10 billion in 2019. They previously had been owned by Fox and were part of Disney’s acquisition of various Fox assets. Since Disney owned ESPN, government regulators forced them to sell those networks. The interest on the debt is a result of Sinclair borrowing $8.6 billion to acquire them, according to Forbes. Let’s cut to the chase: What does this mean for Lightning TV broadcasts? Nothing right away, and probably nothing in terms of the remainder of the regular season. In a statement released Wednesday morning, Diamond Sports said that its channels will keep carrying games through the 30-day grace period and it plans to continue negotiating with all sides on a restructuring plan. In part, the statement read: “The company intends to use the 30-day grace period to continue progressing its ongoing discussions with creditors and other key stakeholders regarding potential strategic alternatives and deleveraging transactions to best position Diamond Sports Group for the future.” Also bear in mind: While regional rightsholders can broadcast opening-round games, all postseason broadcasts after that are broadcast exclusively by the national rightsholders. The Lightning’s current regional sports network rightsholder contract ends after this season. What about broadcasts of Rays games? At this point, Rays team officials don’t expect the issue to impact televised coverage of their games. Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred recently told the Associated Press that MLB would be in a position to step in if Diamond was unable to broadcast games. “Our goal would be to make games available not only within the traditional cable bundle but on the digital side as well,” Manfred said. “What we do is largely dependent on how Diamond and the creditors play their cards, what they decide to do.” Additionally, MLB recently announced the hiring of Billy Chambers to the newly created position of executive vice president, local media. In this job, Chambers will “work closely with the 30 clubs on the most effective means to distribute games to fans in local markets throughout the country,” an MLB statement said. Chambers’ previous gig? Chief financial officer and chief operations officer of the regional sports networks acquired by Sinclair. Could Wednesday’s news affect the broadcast revenue significant to the Rays’ bottom line? Possibly. It’s estimated that annual local broadcast revenue accounts for 21% of Major League Baseball’s overall $10.8 billion, according to Forbes. Moreover, an estimated 90% of regional sports networks’ revenue comes from monthly subscriber fees. Any impact of the financial issues could play out differently in assorted markets. While some regional sports networks have been reported to be losing money, Bally Sports seems to do good business in Florida, with contracts for six teams and solid ratings. However, Diamond Sports could be forced to restructure contracts with clubs (resulting in a decline in payments) or cancel them outright, allowing clubs to reassume their broadcast rights and re-sell them. In renegotiated contracts, the teams might accept being paid less or stretching payments over a longer period, but still receive more than if Diamond breaches, a George Mason University professor of law told Sportico. Are we one step closer to a world where live-streaming becomes the primary means of viewing a Rays or Lightning game? You betcha. We are, after all, in the throes of mass cord-cutting (i.e. consumers dropping traditional cable TV packages for streaming services). The Yankees reportedly are exploring a direct-to-consumer streaming service launched via YES Network, the nation’s highest-rated regional sports network (which the club owns). The streaming service could go live as soon as the start of the 2023 season. There have also been rumors that Major League Baseball is looking into launching its own nationwide streaming product which would include MLB.tv, which streams all games not televised locally as well as in-market games. This would, of course, minimize the need of regional sports networks. Heck, Bally Sports last summer introduced an app allowing fans to watch games on their phones for $19.99 a month (or $189.99 annually), though it’s widely believed the app has fallen far short of expectations financially. Times staff writers Eduardo A. Encina and Marc Topkin have contributed to this report. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.