Frontier Airlines just unveiled a new summer pass that gets you unlimited flights from May to September for only $399. It’s called the GoWild! Summer Pass. But if you want one, you’ll need to act quickly. There are a limited number of passes available at the $399 introductory rate, and they’re available only for a limited time, Frontier says. The airline’s website indicates the regular retail price for the pass will be $999. With the pass, you can fly as often as you like from May 2 to Sept. 30 (other than about a dozen blackout dates that are listed online). Given that five-month time span, students and teachers and vacationing families might be especially interested in the deal. Of course, you also have to be willing to fly Frontier, which is an ultra-low-cost carrier. Frontier draws its share of complaints about service, and it charges extra fees for everything from beverages to carry-on bags and assigned seats. Not only that, but Frontier recently got rid of its customer service call line and switched to a messaging-based system, annoying some passengers. So have fun with that. Still, 400 bucks for unlimited flights, even if it’s on a budget carrier — that’s a deal, especially if you’re looking to fly a lot. No other U.S. airline currently has an all-you-can-fly deal. JetBlue used to have an “All You Can Jet” pass that lasted a month, but the airline no longer offers that except as a prize in promotional contests. Pro Tip: When is the best time to snag the best deals on airfare? One study says it’s 76 days before your departure date. What Does ‘Available for a Limited Time’ Mean? So what does Frontier mean when it says $399 is an “introductory rate,” available only for a limited time? We have an example of what that means. In November, Frontier announced an all-you-can-fly pass for 2023. Called the GoWild! Pass, the annual pass launched at a price of $599. Within just a few weeks, the price went up to $799. Now the price is $1,299 for a one-year flying pass, with a year of unlimited flights starting on May 2. ‘A Truly Epic Summer’ The GoWild! Summer Pass can’t be transferred to another person. Also, this is important — unless you cancel after the summer, it will automatically renew for next summer, probably for the regular retail rate of $999. Each flight costs 1 cent, plus any taxes and extra fees, like for checked bags, carry-on bags or specific seats on the plane. “For people with flexible schedules, this is a terrific opportunity to have a truly epic summer and then some, soaking up rays on the beach, exploring national parks and visiting new cities,” said Daniel Shurz, a senior VP for Frontier. Based in Denver, Frontier is a budget carrier that flies to more than 100 cities. This summer, it’ll add new nonstop routes from five mainland U.S. cities to Puerto Rico. Remember, the $399 summer passes are available on a first-come, first-served basis. So if you’re interested in this deal, it’s best not to dawdle. This story originally appeared in The Penny Hoarder.