Anything for a better life Amid migrant arrivals, abandoned boats pile up | Feb. 6 I get chills looking at photographs of derelict boats that are the byproduct of our southern border immigration crisis. Think of the people taking this journey. They must be desperate to trust their life, families and future to patched-together collections of junk parts. The ocean is unforgiving, and once outside of the sight of land, adverse weather or strong currents and tides can quickly turn a perilous journey into a tragedy. What are the motivations? The simple answer is, they left because they had to, and the numbers speak to the conditions in their home country, not who’s in charge of immigration. They did not wait until former President Donald Trump was out of office and President Joe Biden took over. Politics, in large part, created the crisis, but let’s not forget that real people are at the center of the issue. Let’s put politics aside and focus on solutions rather than talking points. Jon Crawfurd, Gulfport Create EV battery swap stations Changing of the guard | Column, Feb. 2 Batteries are available in many standard sizes, from tiny hearing aid size to batteries that are too big and heavy to lift. Instead of building electric cars with integral batteries, why not build cars with easily replaceable batteries that could be swapped out with minimal effort? This would solve two immediate problems: (1) Rapid chargeability (like filling your gas tank) and (2) Infrastructure (putting charging stations everywhere). Instead of having to install electric-charging stations all over the nation, why not implement battery swap stations similar to the the five-minute oil changing stations, where a driver can pull in, stay in their car, have a technician swap the battery and be on their way in 5 to 10 minutes, like filling up your gas tank? The battery swap stations could be set up to charge many batteries at once, always ready with a previously swapped battery for the next user. The electric car batteries could be standardized similar to AAA through D size batteries we buy today. This could be done today without any further advances in battery technology, and would provide an almost immediate solution to the long-charging time dilemma. Begin with battery swap stations at rest stops along the freeways of the United States. John P. Jones, Seffner No mass transit for you Tax refund is proposed | Feb. 7 Remember the infamous “Soup Nazi” from Seinfeld? If you didn’t please his every whim, he would ban you from his shop by yelling, “No soup for you!” With Gov. Ron DeSantis’ new plan for the $570 million in sales tax revenue that was collected from the overturned Hillsborough County tax referendum, it’s No Soup for Transit. Instead, setting it up the governor’s way skims $11.4 million off the top for “third party administrator fees” and effectively kills the extension of the street car in Tampa. Of course, the governor’s edict would prevent any money from being spent on transit (you know, money that might help poor people who can’t afford a car). I am grateful for whatever crumbs the governor allows us to have from the money that we spent in Hillsborough County to be kept there — not to be used on all of these “administrative fees.” Oh yeah, and don’t forget that the “will of the voters” was to spend 45% of the tax money for transit. But, we know how the governor feels about the will of the voters of Hillsborough County. Right, Andrew Warren? Gary Gibbons, St. Petersburg Overcoming prejudice Florida’s rejection of AP course a new salvo in old war | Jan. 29 I was one of the children indoctrinated by the United Daughters of the Confederacy in the 1950s. Fortunately I later married, moved about the world and was afforded a broad life experience, understanding and acceptance of cultural differences. I am happy to be able to say my children grew up in a home free of prejudice against people who looked different from themselves. I am proud of this achievement, especially at a time when I believe the governor is attempting to send us back to the 1950s and beyond. Suzanne Martindale, Pinellas Park Why the pin? First sweeping US gun crime report in 20 years released | Feb. 3 My representative in Congress, Anna Paulina Luna, has been wearing an assault rifle lapel pin. I find this behavior very upsetting. I believe it to be an insult and hurtful to victims of gun violence. I have no faith that she is interested in bringing down the level of violence in the United States. Susan Hatton, Gulfport