TAMPA — The Lightning knew going into Thursday night’s game that the Sabres, the first of three straight opponents fighting for playoff spots, would be desperate and dangerous. Still, Tampa Bay was pulled out of its game, allowing Buffalo to leave Amalie Arena with a 6-5 overtime win. Ilya Lyubushkin scored the winning goal shorthanded 1:41 into the extra period. With his first goal of the season, the defenseman became the only player in team history to score a shorthanded goal in overtime in the regular season. The Lightning started overtime with a 4-on-3 advantage due to a delay-of-game penalty against defenseman Henri Jokiharju with 7.5 seconds left in regulation. Tampa Bay, third in the Atlantic Division, dropped to 36-17-4 but kept its home point streak alive at 16 games. Buffalo, in a battle with five other teams for one of two Eastern Conference wild-card spots, improved to 29-23-4. Sabres center Tage Thompson scored three goals in a high-paced, back-and-forth contest that took the Lightning out of their defensively responsible game and should serve as a red flag, forward Pat Maroon said. “Listen, if we want to play good hockey down the stretch, we’re going to have to figure it out now, because it’s not going to be fun doing that during the first round of playoffs,” Maroon said. “We’ve got to defend, we’ve got to stop breakaways, we can’t turn pucks over. “Our third period’s been good, but it’s not good enough. We got back, we got a point, but these teams are clawing for a playoff spot. Now we are going to get a hot Detroit team and a Pittsburgh team that is desperate to win hockey games. This is playoff hockey down the stretch, and we can’t give up four breakaways.” Lyubushkin’s goal came on a breakaway following a turnover by forward Steven Stamkos in the offensive zone. Thompson gave the Sabres a 2-1 lead with a second-period power-play goal, then scored his second of the game less than three minutes later on a breakaway, taking a long pass from forward Jeff Skinner to put Buffalo up 3-1 12:20 into the period. Watching the Sabres skate up and down the ice brought back bad memories for Lightning coach Jon Cooper. “It’s the Lightning of yesteryear coming out,” he said. “Everybody wants to get their points. And all played offense, and there’s no one going the other way. Then you start learning hard lessons like this. And that’s what happened.” The Lightning were able to get back into the game in the third period. Forward Brayden Point scored 5:48 in, but Thompson answered 30 seconds later to complete his fourth hat trick of the season. Forward Anthony Cirelli closed the gap to 5-4 for the Lightning 8:33 in, and forward Ross Colton tied the score on a power-play goal with 5:06 left in regulation. “Obviously, we’re playing a little loose there, giving up way too many chances, and (the Sabres are) a fast team, and they play fast, and they capitalized on their chances,” Cirelli said. “I think we have to clean up some stuff and be defending better and limiting those turnovers.” Things started out well for Tampa Bay, with Stamkos snapping in the first goal 2:19 into the game. It was his 507th career goal and tied Jean Beliveau for 43rd place on the NHL’s all-time list. It came on a pass from forward Nikita Kucherov, who set a franchise record with his third 60-assist season. The Lightning were without Zach Bogosian, who is part of their top defense pair with Victor Hedman. Bogosian was scratched to attend to a personal issue, the team said. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy allowed six goals on 23 shots as his 12-game home winning streak came to an end. " ‘Vasy’ can only do so much,” Maroon said. “He can only stop the puck so much. So we got to just nip it in the bud now and figure it out and sort it out between us. It’s in the locker room. It’s the guys in here. We’re not happy about this. We’re not happy about our performances. And we’ve got to go face a Detroit team (Saturday) that’s beat us twice now.” Contact Kristie Ackert at kackert@tampabay.com. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.