LAKE BUENA VISTA — Rays officials have read, seen and heard plenty about the new rules changes for this season, most recently Friday when Major League Baseball representatives visited as part of a tour of spring camps. The restrictions on defensive shifts, implementation of a pitch timer (which includes pickoff limits) and increased size of the bases have been well documented. Now it will be interesting to see what the Rays, and other creative-thinking teams, can do to get around them, and how those attempts are regulated. “A lot of people will be asking questions what can and can’t be done,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “Then once they find out, ‘Hey, this is allowed,’ then they’ll practice it.” For example, though the requirement is now to have two infielders on each side of second base and on the dirt when the pitch is thrown, could a team with two speedy outfielders feel comfortable against a lefty pull hitter, moving a third into that shallow rightfield slot, essentially circumventing the change and continuing to frustrate batters? “They said that’s good,” Cash said. “I’m guessing most teams are looking into it to see if there is enough tendency of a hitter to justify that.” Or in the same situation, what about putting the shortstop “in motion” — like a wide receiver — toward the other side of second base so he “breaks the plane” just after the pitch? “Timing it up” is not supposed to be allowed, Cash said, as it is “breaking the spirit of the rule” but the shortstop can step across second after the ball is released. That could be tricky to enforce, though it will be monitored by overhead cameras and is subject to replay review. Another hack some pitchers used in the minors is to get set immediately in the 15-second window (or 20 if a runner is one) to deliver the pitch, forcing the hitter to wait anxiously as he is now limited to only one “timeout” per at-bat. “I’ve got to see it played out,” Cash said. “To me, that is not right. To sit there, and have the hitters sitting there — we’ve watched it for 25 years, 50 years where the hitter calls timeout. Now he can’t.” And there are sure to be more hacks, especially with limits on pickoff throws and times pitchers can step off the rubber. “From what I’ve understood, you cannot push the envelope,” Cash said. “If MLB defines it, or the umpire says you’re exploiting the rule, they’re gonna say no.” Something Cash found out is allowed is infielders swapping positions before an inning, but they have to stay in that alignment for the full inning. For example, if smooth-fielding Taylor Walls was playing third and a team had three lefty pull hitters up, the Rays could swap him and the second baseman. One benefit of playing 13 spring games at Tropicana Field instead of their usual spring field in Port Charlotte: the replay system will be active for teams to get used to its potential use on shift-rule violations. Anniversary presents As part of the 25th anniversary celebration, the team will install near life-size statues representing two of the franchise’s greatest moments: Akinori Iwamura stepping on second to clinch the 2008 AL pennant and Evan Longoria homering to win 2011′s Game 162. The location is still being decided, with plans to add more (cough, Dan Johnson?), so expect a “garden” or dedicated area. … The inaugural team Hall of Fame class — Wade Boggs, Carl Crawford, Don Zimmer — was intentionally skewed to represent the franchise’s early years, with plans, but not a mandate, to add at least one member annually. Evan Longoria is a lock once he retires as active players won’t be considered. So is original Ray and Tampa native Fred McGriff, but team officials wanted to let him focus on his July 23 induction to the big Hall in Cooperstown. Neil Solondz has a good rundown from team president Matt Silverman on the Rays Radio podcast. … One of many questions: Should original owner Vince Naimoli be inducted? … Given some of the stories, apocryphal or not, of Boggs’ beer-drinking exploits, making his Hall of Fame promo item a can cooler was cleverly and brazenly fitting. … Also, the Zim Bear is just as haunting in bobblehead form as the original. Rays rumblings The team is paying well in excess of $1 million to use the Disney facilities for spring training. … Denard Span, a Tampa product and former Ray, will join the Bally Sports Sun pre- and post-game TV crew for 25 to 30 games. … Commissioner Rob Manfred’s comments to the Tampa Bay Times about the Trop redevelopment site not necessarily being the last stadium option seem designed to spur action on one, or both, sides of the bay. …  Infielder/outfielder Vidal Brujan is in a small group of players who for procedural reasons have an additional fourth option year, meaning he can be sent back to Triple-A again this year. … Wander Franco was 58th in MLB Network’s ranking of the game’s top 100 players. … Trop changes include adding a grab-and-go space on the Porch area, with a similar-sounding setup to Amazon Go shops, where there are no registers or check-out stations as customers are charged via app. … Nine spring home games are slated to be shown on TV. … With McGriff deciding not to pick between the Blue Jays, Braves, Padres and Rays for a cap logo on his Hall of Fame plaque, why not, as several have suggested, go with Tom Emanski Baseball World cap he wore in the infamous commercials? … Look for Luke Raley, who is out of options, to get some time at first base this spring. Brujan, Raley, Jonathan Aranda and Josh Lowe seem the top candidates for the final two position player roster spots. ... The Rays’ win total is set at 89 by betonline.ag, fourth most in the American League but behind East foes New York (94 ½) and Toronto (91 ½). The site has Shane McClanahan a 12-1 choice, and eighth overall, to win the AL Cy Young, with Franco 33-1 (and in a group at 10th) for league MVP honors, Brandon Lowe 80-1 and Randy Arozarena 100-1. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.