The big story: Florida has for years bragged about how well its students do on Advanced Placement courses. Their success is considered an indicator of the strength of the education system. Gov. Ron DeSantis has suggested that perhaps the state might be better off without AP classes, which give teens access to college credits if they do well enough. He made his comment amid a simmering feud with the College Board over its newest course, African American studies. DeSantis has derided the course, calling it ideology and false history. College Board has criticized DeSantis and his administration for playing politics with education. Students who take the courses suggested that someone ask them what they think is in their best interest. Read more here. Hot topics Student assignment: The Hillsborough County School Board could not reach consensus as it discussed proposals to consolidate schools and reassign students. The administration has aimed to get a proposal up for a vote by early March. • Lee County elementary school families will have fewer choice options with transportation provided for the coming academic year, the Fort Myers News-Press reports. Security: It’s been five years since the Parkland school shooting. It paved the way for some changes in the way Florida schools are kept secure, the Sun-Sentinel reports. • Some Palm Beach County schools will test out metal detectors in the coming months, WPTV reports. • The Hernando County school district began using new technology that identifies firearms that come within view of its security cameras, Hernando Sun reports. Book challenges: Florida education commissioner Manny Díaz Jr. accused some teachers of performing “political theater” in removing access to classroom libraries, saying the law does not require that, WJAX reports. At the same time, he added that the state needs more consistency in understanding and implementing the laws relating to books and curriculum. Superintendents: Broward County’s new interim superintendent received a $300,000 contract and instructions to repair the district’s “toxic culture,” WTVJ reports. More from the Sun-Sentinel. Teacher pay: Improving salaries has become a bipartisan cause across the nation, including Florida, USA Today reports. In higher education New College: The school’s new trustees picked former education commissioner Richard Corcoran to help the financially struggling school reorganize itself. They offered him $699,000 a year — more than double the president they forced out. Diversity and inclusion: Anti-CRT activist Christopher Rufo has expanded his Florida targets to include the University of South Florida, Axios reports. Today in Tallahassee ... The House Choice and Innovation subcommittee meets at 1:30 p.m. It is scheduled to take up two bills related to school board elections. • The House Higher Education Appropriations subcommittee meets at 4 p.m., where it is to receive a presentation on workforce development. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Happy Valentine’s Day. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.