USF’s push for an on-campus stadium took another step Tuesday during a virtual board of trustees committee meeting. The Bulls will formally seek up to $22 million for the design phase of the project during the full board’s regularly scheduled meeting on March 7. “We’re excited to be able to move into this next phase …” said Jay Stroman, CEO of the USF Foundation and one of the leaders of the stadium push. “This is the right time step for the university.” The meeting included more questions than usual about the full budget for the project and how it will be paid for. The answers, USF officials said, will become clearer over the next 6-10 months as USF works with the design-build team of Populous and Barton Malow to figure out the Bulls’ full wish list and how much those items cost. The contract is about 95% complete, Stroman said, but both sides are locked into a term sheet. That term sheet includes a provision that will allow USF to make $2 million in liquidated damages for every home game in the 2026 season in which the new stadium isn’t ready. No state funds would be used for the $22 million design phase, Stroman said. Instead, the Bulls have “well over” that figure from philanthropic gifts, investment earnings and other methods to devote to this step. Board of trustees chairperson Will Weatherford said he understands the questions about the budget and financing plan, but it’s hard to be transparent while those answers are still being sought. Once the design phase is over, the board will be asked to vote on a full plan to build the stadium — which is expected to cost nine figures. “It’s a long time coming. It’s not cheap,” Weatherford said. “But I appreciate our team putting the extra effort in to make sure that were not using dollars that would go toward educating our students or paying faculty to build this facility and to design this facility. These are dollars that are separate, apart from that. Almost every major university in America has figured out how to build a stadium on their campus, and we can, too — and we’re going to.” Weatherford added this later about communicating the monetary details of what he called a “multi-hundred-million-dollar stadium”: “I think the tricky part is, we are being and can be and will be always fully transparent with what we’re doing, but we can’t be transparent about things we haven’t planned for yet. We literally don’t have a financing plan yet. We’re working on it.... “We don’t know how much the stadium’s going to cost. There’s a lot of ifs and question marks out there. Over the next 6-10 months, all those question marks start to become more clear, which makes it easier for us to come back to the trustees with a fully baked financing plan.” Tuesday’s update is the latest in a years-long quest to bring Bulls games away from Raymond James Stadium and to a 35,000-seat stadium to campus. The Bulls intend to build it just north of the current practice facilities. USF officials have targeted 2026 to be the first season for the stadium. This story will be updated. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.