I am Eloise. I am six. I am a city child. I live in a Tampa luxury condo. We have a private lobby, but I like to explore the lobby in the hotel. It is enormously large and with abundance of green plants. A suspicious amount of potted palm trees, actually. I do not know why there are so many. I like to hide in the trees and pretend I live in the jungle with all the little animals and not in Tampa, Florida, in new construction. There is a big, white staircase where visitors in tight dresses take photos with their behinds facing the camera. I don’t understand why anyone wants a photo of their behind. There are places upstairs where people drink $20 beverages that make them stand real close, but I am not allowed in there. That’s OK, because I don’t like people talking to me that close. One day I will get in. Maybe one day, you will, too, but probably not. I can chew gum. Write. Spell. I am learning Pilates for TikTok. I can go to the spa for an 80-minute Bespoke Biologique Recherche Skin Instant Lab Facial for $365. Nanny takes me sometimes. It is her job to pamper me. I have my own room with gleaming white floors, can lighting and a strange echo. I write my name on the walls with a $42 bronze contouring stick. We have a terrace and a pool on the roof. Every day, I visit the on-premises lifestyle manager and ask what is going on around the hotel. Sometimes I see Mr. Vinik, but he is very busy. His place is on the 26th floor and cost $8.34 million. I like my luxury condo, but it is not the only one in Tampa Bay. My turtle, Skipperdee, is not very happy about these developments, it seems. Skipperdee is grumpy. Skipperdee says a new 22-story place in Tampa has an outdoor kitchen and fire pits, which I think sounds fun for roasting marshmallows. Skipperdee says it’s better for staring into the base of a flickering, blue flame and considering the limitless pressure to accumulate material wealth and social mobility. Skipperdee says the designs of the new places are “soulless,” which Nanny says is a cliché and highly subjective. Skipperdee says two new towers are coming to St. Petersburg, one with 35 stories and one with 42. Wow! I would ride the elevator up and down all day. Skipperdee says developers in Tampa razed two historic buildings for another condo tower. He says the city let go of these buildings too easily. Skipperdee says maybe character and history are the cost of growth, then he gets real moody and quiet. Sometimes, he pulls out an issue of The Atlantic from 2020 and reads an essay about the “escalating homogeneity of urban spaces.” He clears his turtle throat and reads, “In non-places, history, identity, and human relation are not on offer. Non-places used to be relegated to the fringes of cities in retail parks or airports, or contained inside shopping malls. But they have spread.” Then he gets exhausted and throws the issue to the side. He says Tampa Bay is just the latest iteration of American monoculture, he guesses, and there’s nothing to be done. Nanny tells him to shut up. She threatens to let him go in the nearest wetlands mitigation area. Nanny tucks me into my Restoration Hardware bed. She reads me a story and calms me down. She says one day I will understand the things Skipperdee is talking about. She says that I can decide for myself where I want to live. She says she hopes my job pays enough to cover my future rent. She says one-bedroom units in our building already cost four times that of a 30-year mortgage on a house in the suburbs. She says I have lots of time to worry about that, though. After all, I am only six. Get Stephanie’s newsletter For weekly bonus content and a look inside columns by Stephanie Hayes, sign up for the free Stephinitely newsletter.