Not on my time or dime Dilbert is gone | Feb. 27 I support free speech. I abhor much of what comes out of U.S. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene’s mouth but support her right to make inane comments. What is wrong is the Republican Party’s failure to condemn her. There will always be whack jobs spouting hate, but they should be countered, not coddled. Same with Scott Adams, creator of the Dilbert comic strip. He can go ahead and keep saying that white Americans should not live with Black Americans. Just not on my time and not in my newspaper. Ronald Mack, South Pasadena Dilbert itself was fine Dilbert is gone | Feb. 27 Your termination of Dilbert is cancel culture at its ugliest. The excellent cartoon is being canceled not for what it contained but for opinions expressed by its creator in a totally unrelated medium. We’ve now reached the point where you can be destroyed for what you think, not what you do. The Tampa Bay Times should be ashamed. By the way, I’ll bet that most Dilbert readers hadn’t even heard Dilbert creator Scott Adams’ comments until you brought them up. John S.V. Weiss, Spring Hill A fireable offense Dilbert is gone | Feb. 27 Dilbert, you’re fired! Gus Shafman, Dunedin Making America divided again DeSantis targets 4 Tampa Bay area school board members | Feb. 24 With Gov. Ron DeSantis’ anti-woke agenda of whitewashing history, banning books, discouraging critical thinking and dialogue, punishing free speech and now targeting Tampa Bay school board members, he would have you believe he is protecting children from being indoctrinated. Have you all forgotten his campaign video back in 2018 where he was teaching his toddler to “build the wall” with toy blocks, where he was holding the book “The Art of the Deal” up to his infant, reading, “Then, Mr. Trump said, ‘You’re fired.’” He added, “I love that part.” Then, he was back to his toddler again, pointing to each word on a Trump yard sign, teaching her to read “Make America Great Again.” I think that DeSantis continues to manipulate his supporters by preying on their fears and claiming that “the ‘woke’ left” is doing the indoctrinating when I believe that he is the one actually doing it day in and day out. A. O’Brien, Pinellas Park