Today, Feb. 13, we observe World Radio Day, an event first heralded by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 2011 and adopted as an International Day by the United Nations in 2012. “Radio and Peace” is the theme of World Radio Day 2023. The member states of the U.N. recognize that “support to independent radio has to be viewed as an integral part of peace and stability … as a pillar for conflict prevention and peacebuilding.” Representing the staff and volunteers of WMNF 88.5 FM, I fully agree with UNESCO and the U.N. that “radio can shape a society’s experience of diversity, stand as an arena for all voices to speak out, be represented and heard.” Independent community radio stations across the United States provide a unique and critically important communication medium in this regard. We believe in the vision of the National Federation of Community Broadcasters (NFCB), which strives for “A nation informed and entertained by a robust local media service that values the citizen above the consumer, strengthens our democracy, supports creative expression and contributes to the health of the communities it serves.” Since 1979, WMNF has served our community with a mission to promote equality, peace, and social and economic justice by providing a commercial-free, volunteer-powered forum for respectful, open dialogue, and celebration of the culturally diverse populations who live and work in the Tampa Bay area. Seismic changes in the media landscape, including the loss or corporate consolidation of local media outlets, have diminished the quality of community reporting and programming. Media conglomerates now produce generic content for nationwide consumption through their local channels. This pre-packaged programming drowns out the medley of local, often marginalized voices that must be heard for our community to develop peaceful, civil resolutions in tumultuous times. Yet, WMNF has remained a steadfast local source of independent news and public affairs programming for more than four decades — and without dependence on a college, university or other well-funded establishment. Rather, this vital community resource is funded almost entirely by listeners who know the value of independent radio as a medium that includes and values all people, fosters civil dialogue, and empowers listeners to engage with each other for a better community. On this World Radio Day, I urge readers to support Tampa Bay’s own community radio station with a gift to the WMNF Endowment Fund. (For a limited time, donations to the endowment will be matched by a grant from Community Foundation Tampa Bay.) Supporting independent community radio is an investment a unique public square that mitigates conflict and works toward peace. I hope you will join us. Randi M. Zimmerman is general manager, WMNF 88.5 FM, wmnf.org