TAMPA ― The Bucs’ search for an offensive coordinator expanded to a conference rival Friday, as they conducted a virtual interview with Rams assistant head coach/tight ends coach Thomas Brown. Brown is the eighth candidate to interview for the position held for four seasons by Byron Leftwich, who was fired on January 19. Brown has worked under Rams head coach Sean McVay for the last three seasons and was part of the staff that beat the Bengals 23-20 in Super Bowl 56. The Bucs and Rams have met four times during that span, with Los Angeles winning three of them, including a 30-27 victory in a division-round game following the 2021 season. The Bucs beat the Rams 16-13 earlier this season, with Tom Brady tossing the winning touchdown pass to Cade Otton with 9 seconds remaining. Brown joined McVay’s staff in 2020 as the team’s running backs coach, and the Rams finished 10th in the NFL in rushing averaging that season with 126.1 yards per game. Tampa Bay was the worst rushing offense a year ago, averaging 76.9 yards. Brown was promoted to assistant head coach/running backs in 2021 before assuming his current role last season. A former running back at Georgia, Brown was a sixth-round pick of the Atlanta Falcons in 2008 before injuries forced him to begin his coaching career at his alma mater in 2011. The Bucs have conducted a thorough search to replace Leftwich, with seven other candidates interviewed: Georgia offensive coordinator Todd Monken, Broncos passing game coordinator and quarterbacks coach Klint Kubiak, Jaguars passing game coordinator Jim Bob Cooter, Bengals quarterbacks coach Dan Pitcher, Vikings receivers coach Keenan McCardell, Giants quarterbacks coach Shea Tierney and Saints passing game coordinator Ronald Curry. Seahawks quarterbacks coach Dave Canales also is expected to interview with the Bucs. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.