LAKE BUENA VISTA — Jason Adam has had a fabulous February so far. The Rays reliever was named to the United States team for the World Baseball Classic. He won his arbitration case against the Rays, earning an extra $225,000 in salary ($1.775 million vs. $1.55 million). And he and his wife, Kelsey, shared the news they have a new baby on the way, their fourth and another girl. Being on the WBC team, Adam said, is very special. “To represent our country is a huge honor anytime you get that opportunity,” he said. “Then just looking at the names of the guys that we get to play with, it’s an incredible team to just get to be a part of it.” Sitting in on the arbitration hearing, as his representatives and those for the team argued their case before a three-arbiter panel, was a bit weird and fun. “It’s an interesting experience,” Adam said. “The Rays do a good job of keeping it about baseball. It’s personal for us players, because obviously that money makes a huge difference in our lives. But they don’t attack you personally or anything like that. It’s a weird experience.” As for the verdict? “It was obviously a thrill to win. (The Rays) called and said, ‘Hey, good for you.’ So no hard feelings, but definitely glad to win.” The new baby, due in late July, will join sisters Kinsley (4), Joelle (2) and Selah (1). Adam is overjoyed and joked he is well aware he is in the minority. “I may hide in one little corner — that’s their house,” he said. Homefield edge Free agent signee Zach Elfin got an expected benefit when the Rays ended up using Disney World for the first two weeks of camp. The starting pitcher is from nearby Oviedo and, though he has to deal with some Orlando traffic, will spend that time living at home. “My wife’s pregnant with twins right now … so it’s nice to be close,” he said. “She doesn’t have to move too much, so it’s beneficial.” With Lauren’s due date during the first week of the season, Eflin and the Rays may have to do some juggling to his pitching schedule. After spending eight seasons with Philadelphia, Eflin, who signed a three-year, $40 million contract, said he enjoyed his first day on the field as a Ray. “Absolutely,” he said. “It’s been eight years since I’ve worn a different jersey than in Phillie red. So it’s definitely a little different, but it feels right. I’m excited to be here. And the people that I’ve met have been awesome so far. So it’s been really fun.” Miscellany Manager Kevin Cash said shortstop Wander Franco, who missed much of 2022 with injuries, is not only totally healthy but “worked really hard this offseason to get his body as lean and probably as flexible as he’s ever been.” … Rays officials opened Tuesday’s media session sharing their ongoing concern for those in the Port Charlotte area, where the extensive damage from Hurricane Ian included rendering the training facility unusable this spring. … While most Rays personnel are trying to find their way around the Disney complex, catcher Christian Bethancourt has an advantage: He spent eight years training there as a Braves minor-leaguer. … There will be radio coverage of 21 spring games: 10 weekend and one night game on WDAE, 10 others on raysbaseball.com and the MLB Ballpark app. The “Countdown to Opening Day” show debuts Thursday at 7 p.m. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.