The best and brightest American unexceptionalism | Letter, Feb. 13 As the father of a 21-year-old, I can assure the letter writer that indoctrination in our schools is not why his statistic finds “only 15% of Gen Z’ers are proud to live in America.” These kids today are the best and the brightest our nation has ever known. If there remains hope for our nation, it’s because of our children, not our leadership, current or recently passed. The pressures and the educational standards under which our youth live and grow are beyond belief. Billion-dollar realty hedge funds say their business models require the purchase of 600 rental homes per month. That’s unquestionably driving the cost of housing beyond even our kids’ imaginations. And yet we keep cutting taxes on the corporate and the wealthy. Has the letter writer glanced at the deficit lately? How could a young person today possibly be proud? When I was my son’s age, 43 years ago, I had joyous hopes and dreams about the future; taxes, yes, were higher but the American dream was a shining reality. Today when I ask my son about that dream, he just pauses, breathes uneasily, tries not to look away. His reality is not on account of “indoctrination” at his St. Pete High or his University of Florida. He chooses his news sources just like the rest of us, and he is well-informed; objectively so. The letter writer asks why people from other countries are trying to get into ours? The answer undoubtedly lies in the hope of the American dream. But their reality will, like my son’s, materialize into a sad and rude awakening. The writer’s cited statistic leaves him flummoxed; yes, but it also proves the truth. David A. Eaton Sr., St. Petersburg A salary of $699,000 New College board more than doubles president’s pay for Richard Corcoran | Feb. 14 I thought one of the primary reasons for restructuring the New College of Florida board of trustees was to improve its financial health. Now one of the board’s first acts is to more than double the newly appointed interim president’s salary to $699,000? Glenn Koury, Lutz Qualified for the job Do away with AP classes? | Feb. 14 Gov. Ron DeSantis asked how the people on the College Board got there. I guess he does not understand that some people get their jobs due to their qualifications. Ann Jamieson, St. Petersburg