What’s at stake Russia hits targets across Ukraine with missiles, drones | Feb. 10 Americans, for the most part, see Europe as a tourist destination, a place to enjoy diverse cuisine and classical architecture. It is seldom seen as the massive battleground it once was, where millions died in two world wars, including hundreds of thousands of our own troops. But travel to Ukraine in Eastern Europe, mere hours by car, and the landscape changes from comfort and commerce back to the tumult of war. As we approach the one-year anniversary of Russia’s unprovoked invasion, we are reminded that liberty has its vulnerabilities. At times it must be defended against aggressive force. Had the United States and its coalition partners not intervened by providing military and economic assistance, a sovereign democratic European nation would not have survived. This unwavering solidarity is an unmistakable acknowledgement that the fight for freedom extends beyond the borders of Europe’s second-largest country. Jane Larkin, Tampa American unexceptionalism A poll on pride in the United States It’s an indictment of our educational system that a recent poll by Morning Consult found that only 16% of Gen Z’ers were proud to live in the United States. It rose to only 36% for Millennials. I would like to know what country they would like to live in? I fear that indoctrination in our schools is causing this. The American Experiment needs to be maintained. Why do so many people from other countries want to come here? While not perfect, nothing is; it is the best country in the world, and we should be proud to be an American. Thomas Sheehan, Brooksville Get what you pay for Slow but unsure | Letter, Feb. 10 The letter writer from Illinois should know the answer to his query about poor mass transit. Illinois is a relatively high-tax state, including an income tax of nearly 5%. Florida is among the low-tax/low-spend states. We spend less on education, infrastructure and public services, but we tax less. A simple case of you get what you pay for (sometimes). Tony Leisner, Tarpon Springs Follow the logic For some, permitless carry is not enough | Feb. 9 If permitless carry is such a great idea, why do the Legislature and the governor refuse to allow it in all areas and all meetings in the state Capitol? Why not first allow permitless carry of guns everywhere legislators are allowed to go in the Capitol building and see how well that goes? This could test Darwin’s theory of survival of the fittest. Barry Koestler, St. Petersburg