What about responsibility? Permitless carry bill advances despite concerns | Feb. 23 Legislation being fast-tracked to allow the permitless carrying of concealed weapons contains a glaring omission. There is no mention of holding gun owners responsible for securing those firearms. State Sen. Jay Collins believes “in our constitutional right to bear arms to protect those things most valuable and most loved by us.” Does this include our young children, who frequently get their hands on unsecured guns and kill themselves or others? Does it include our friends and neighbors, who are preyed upon by criminals brandishing stolen guns? I will concede this much: I would rather see proponents of “constitutional carry” openly display their weapons, so I know who to stay away from. Law-abiding gun owners are “good guys with guns” — until they’re not. Don Bateman, Tampa A bad idea Permitless carry bill advances despite concerns | Feb. 23 State Sen. Jay Collins of Tampa said: “We believe in our constitutional right to bear arms to protect those things most valuable and most loved by us.” Does he mean our kids that we send to school each day hoping they make it home? In the Parkland school shooting in 2018, the good guy with the gun cowered outside calling for backup on his radio while an assistant football coach sacrificed his body and his life to save a student. Removing all barriers to keep us safe from more gun violence is just wrong. Most voters favor background checks nationwide. Our governor may want to ponder that as he signs this mistake of a bill into Florida law. It’s beyond wrong; it’s aiding and abetting more senseless violence. Martin Fouts, St. Petersburg Better training, please Permitless carry bill advances despite concerns | Feb. 23 How can somebody think permitless carry is a good path to curb gun violence? Yes, the current gun carry classes are weak. I was in a class with a person that couldn’t load their gun. They still got a permit. But that’s a reason to make these classes conform to stricter standards, not let more unqualified and poorly trained people have guns. Letting anybody carry a gun is not the answer. Is this the “well regulated militia” the Second Amendment mentions? Hernando County Sheriff Al Nienhuis says people will do the right thing. Really? In that case, why not do away with speed limits? They make cars that will go 140 mph plus. People should be able to drive that fast. After all, they will do the right thing. Steve Brewster, Dunedin