A conservation board? Why is the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission getting cold feet when some modest steps toward saving pelicans at the Skyway Fishing Pier are suddenly within reach? For months, the commission has held several public meetings to try to find a compromise solution between anglers and bird advocates over how to stop the runaway entanglement of birds in fishing lines. Over the past two years, more than 3,600 seabirds needed rescue from the Skyway after becoming entangled in fishing gear, and of those, more than 500 pelicans were found dead. The average number of entangled pelicans counted at the south Skyway pier is higher than all the other Tampa Bay piers combined. This is a huge, longstanding, documented problem, arising in no small part from the irresponsible fishing practices at the Skyway. Commission staff have proposed rules that would ban fishing gear with more than one hook, such as sabiki rigs; advocates also wanted tight limits on the number of poles that anglers could wield on the pier. But commissioners on Tuesday signaled their reluctance to approve any tough steps. These board members serve on the state’s fish and wildlife conservation commission — not the Skyway anglers club or the treble-hook association. It’s time they acted like it. Walkout. Then what? Hundreds of college students staged a walkout Thursday on Florida university campuses, protesting Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis’ crackdown on curriculum and diversity programs. In Tampa, about 200 students and faculty shared their fears and hopes during an hourlong rally outside the Marshall Student Center at the University of South Florida. They joined similar groups at eight other state university campuses, Rollins College and Largo High School — part of a statewide protest against the governor’s proposals to limit diversity programs, weaken faculty tenure and change curriculum to better align with conservative values. “Ron DeSantis, we won’t let you gut our classes,” one sign read. “Education liberation,” read another. In addition to USF, Rollins College and Largo High, walkouts were held at the University of Florida, Florida International University, Florida State University, Florida Atlantic University, Florida Poly, New College, the University of North Florida and the University of Central Florida. Ben Braver, a USF student and event organizer, said he hoped Thursday’s event was the beginning of a broader movement to defend student and teacher rights at the state level. Isn’t that the point of activism — to get things done? Walkouts are great. Protests send a message. But there’s nothing like voting. So register — and show up on Election Day. You’ve helped enough. It’s a sad reflection on our times when Florida’s elections professionals have to plead with the Legislature not to further screw things up. But that happened this week when Florida’s elections supervisors asked lawmakers not to change mail voting (again) in advance of the 2024 presidential election. A statute enacted last year requires the state to come up with a plan to require Floridians voting by mail to include either the last four digits of their Social Security number, their driver’s license number or their state ID card number next to their signature. Republicans lauded the change as an anti-fraud measure. But voters currently sign their name on the outside of the vote-by-mail envelope. Adding that information there is an obvious security risk. The state’s 67 county election supervisors have considered various options, but they are cumbersome and costly, and “logistically, it’s almost impossible to make that happen for the 2024 election cycle,” said Leon County Elections Supervisor Mark Earley, who heads the statewide supervisors’ association. The Republican-led Legislature has done enough damage by imposing new restrictions on mail voting. Are they really prepared now to expose millions of voters to identity theft? Try the bus. Good news for those already dreaming about their summer forays to the beach: The region’s first bus rapid-transit system, the SunRunner, which shuttles between downtown St. Petersburg and St. Pete Beach, will remain fare-free until November. The governing board of Pinellas County’s transit agency approved the free-fare Wednesday, positioning the new service, which debuted in October, to further boost the area economy and transit’s popularity more generally. Since its start, the 10.3-mile route has emerged as one of the region’s most-used bus services, attracting a range of riders that includes some who had never stepped foot on a Florida bus. Too bad Republican county Commissioners Chris Latvala and Brian Scott, who serve on the bus system’s governing panel, wouldn’t get on board. This is a great idea, and with the loss in fare revenue not expected to reach $100,000, money well spent on a sustained marketing campaign. The move will help cement the SunRunner’s brand and introduce more people in a growing region to the smarts and convenience of mass transit. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.