President Biden, As you land in Tampa today, we welcome you and seek some advice. As you know, we’re a fast-growing state — 1,000 people are still streaming here each day — so we must be doing something right. We’ve got low unemployment and low taxes. But we’ve also got some problems. This is not an exhaustive list — and we’re going to leave aside “culture war” issues — but here are a few specific things that involve our pocketbooks and our quality of life where most Floridians agree we need help. Help save our manatees. Push to put them back on the endangered species list. More than 800 manatees died last year following a record 1,101 deaths in 2021. Most starved to death in the Indian River Lagoon area, according to the state wildlife commission. Blame pollution that kills the seagrasses that manatees feed on. It’s not over. The state has been reduced to feeding some manatees lettuce in hopes of keeping them alive. In 2017, the manatee’s status was downgraded from “endangered” to merely “threatened.” Nearly 2,000 deaths in two years seems to be the very definition of “endangered.” Get them back on the list. Help us solve our insurance crisis. Hurricane Ian whacked Florida hard, causing estimated insured losses of $50 billion to $65 billion, among the costliest storms in U.S. history. You saw some of that firsthand when you met with Gov. Ron DeSantis in the aftermath last fall. So many people lost everything. It was great that the Federal Emergency Management Agency helped them out, but we’ve got a lot to sort through going forward. And it’s not just about helping people to rebuild. Property insurance in Florida has been an ongoing crisis, and it shows few signs of getting significantly better. Even homeowners unaffected by Ian are shocked as they open the envelopes with their new, far higher annual premiums. Florida homeowners pay three times the national average for property insurance, and that was before Ian. Florida is uniquely vulnerable to hurricanes and sea-level rise. What ideas do you have to make homes affordably insurable here? Could there be a national catastrophic fund for hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, floods, tornadoes and the like that would spread the risk and let insurance companies have to insure only normal perils, such as fire or theft? Or is there a better idea altogether? We’re open to ideas, because what we’re doing right now isn’t working. Help save our precious springs. They are in grave danger. Overpumping to slake the thirst and water the lawns and farms for our ever-growing population is drawing down their levels and endangering them, as is pollution. We need better ways to protect them and keep them safe for future generations. We published a recent column that said the federal Clean Water Act “is being violated in nearly every Florida spring and in many of our lakes, rivers and estuaries. Don’t these critical ecological jewels deserve protection also?” The author was right. Crack down on those who are violating the federal law and help protect and restore our springs. These are just three ideas. But it’s a start. Let’s get to work. Editorials are the institutional voice of the Tampa Bay Times. The members of the Editorial Board are Editor of Editorials Graham Brink, Sherri Day, Sebastian Dortch, John Hill, Jim Verhulst and Chairman and CEO Conan Gallaty. Follow @TBTimes_Opinion on Twitter for more opinion news.