Two more people have been arrested in the death of a 13-year-old boy who was fatally struck by a motorcyclist at a street racing event in St. Petersburg last month, police said. Carlos Fernandez, 21, the motorcyclist, and Allan Boreland Jr., 39, the owner of the motorcycle, were arrested Wednesday in connection to the Jan. 29 death of Ethan Martin, 13, St. Petersburg police said Thursday. Fernandez faces felony charges of vehicular homicide, culpable negligence manslaughter, reckless driving causing serious bodily harm and two misdemeanor charges: street racing and operating a motorcycle without an endorsement. Boreland was arrested on charge of culpable negligence manslaughter and given a citation for participating in a street race as a spectator. According to Boreland’s arrest affidavit, he is Fernandez’s uncle and raised him. The affidavit states Boreland should have known Fernandez did not have a motorcycle endorsement at the time of the crash. Both men turned themselves into the Pinellas Jail Wednesday night. Boreland was released after posting $20,000 bail, records show. Fernandez remained in jail Thursday with bail set at $50,750. Boreland on Thursday forwarded a message from the Tampa Bay Times to his attorney Maria Pavlidis, who declined to comment. According to information previously released by police, a crowd formed on 28th Street N near 110th Avenue N for an illegal street racing on the night of Saturday, Jan. 28. At 12:35 a.m. on Sunday, Ethan Martin tried to cross 28th Street and was struck by a motorcyclist, police said. Fernandez was driving over 100 mph when he struck and killed the boy and seriously injured another bystander, who took himself to a local hospital for treatment, police said. Boreland’s arrest affidavit also notes that Fernandez has been involved in two previous separate incidents in 2021 in which he crashed a motorcycle owned by Boreland, one in Pinellas County and one in Pasco. On March 21, 2021, Fernandez crashed on Gandy Boulevard N while driving a motorcycle and injured someone, Pinellas records show. He was cited for careless driving. On Aug. 24, 2021, Fernandez was cited for reckless driving in Pasco County and was adjudicated guilty, records show. Details of that incident were not immediately available Thursday. To obtain a motorcycle endorsement, a driver must complete a motorcycle safety course with an authorized sponsor, according to the Florida Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. St. Petersburg police previously announced the arrest of Ethan Martin’s father, Johnny Martin, on a charge of child neglect in the death of his son. Police said Martin was arrested because he took his son to an illegal event and his son died as a result. Times staff writer Tony Marrero contributed to this report.