Vaccine data and bikinis Florida surgeon general, again questioning COVID vaccines, sends letter to CDC, FDA | Feb. 17 As a Florida licensed health professional, I was sent an email recently from the Florida Department of Health with the “study” by state Surgeon General Joseph Ladapo regarding COVID vaccines. It reminded me of one of my favorite professors’ warning regarding statistical analysis. To reinforce careful data analysis, she would often tell us that statistical research was like a bikini: ”What it shows is provocative; what it hides is essential.” Ladapo’s manipulation of data is not only unprofessional, it is dangerous. Like many of my co-workers, we are embarrassed that our licenses are signed not only by Gov. Ron DeSantis, but also by Ladapo. Kathy Blaney, clinical laboratory scientist, Clearwater Don’t mince words! Florida surgeon general, again questioning COVID vaccines, sends letter to CDC, FDA | Feb. 17 I don’t think William Schaffner, an infectious disease expert at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Tennessee, was right when he said Ladapo’s letter “speaks (to) a misunderstanding of the VAERS data and how they are used, and that’s unfortunate.” There is no misunderstanding. It is another example of ideology over facts in the DeSantis administration. Ron DeSantis will try to position himself as a “reasonable Republican” when he runs for president next year. Don’t believe it for a second. Jerry Nepon-Sixt, Tampa Florida schools are GOP schools Four things to know about AP and DeSantis | Feb. 19 Our governor repeatedly tells us our school system is a mess, and he has taken several dramatic and controversial steps to straighten things out. Republicans have controlled the state House and Senate and the governor’s mansion for over 20 years. Whatever mess our schools are in, it’s a GOP creation. Privatization of the public school system began under Gov. Jeb Bush, and Ron DeSantis certainly is pushing that along, so maybe that’s what all this theater is about. But shame, shame for attacking educators and administrators and making their workplace a nightmare. Thank goodness I no longer teach in Florida’s public system. Jack Ballinger, Palmetto It builds character Start Florida high schools later to let teens wake up | Feb. 15 As a survivor of double sessions in Pinellas County schools in the 1970s, I arrived at high school at 7:15 a.m. every day. Sure I was tired. Heck, the teachers were tired, but we did it. I feel it established personal discipline, it bonded us in shared struggle and it accustomed us to having to be out of our comfort zone. These are important lessons, unappreciated by the various agency officials pushing for later high school start times, who really don’t have the students’ best interests at heart. Arriving at 7:15 a.m. certainly didn’t make me feel good, but it is what my parents demanded and the law said I needed to do, so it taught me that I was not in charge. I was always told that early school was required because parents needed to get to work and, over a 45-year work life, these were very important lessons, arguably as important as anything taught in school. Right after high school, many students will be attending college, where they will be studying at all kinds of hours of the day and expected to be disciplined and focused. Many of my hardest college freshman classes were taught at 8 a.m., which thinned out those who weren’t prepared for the future efforts that would be demanded of them. The virtues of self-control and discipline learned by living under rigorous rules are part of life’s education and certainly necessary to produce responsible and exceptional children. David Campbell, New Port Richey Prioritize national food security I think Congress should pass a comprehensive act to better protect national food security. Currently, we pay farmers not to grow food and acreage lies dormant. My suggestion is that we as a nation increase our production of needed commodities, and we build more silos and other facilities to store the extra supply and other emergency rations. We already have droughts and floods affecting our crops. If they worsen, we could tap into those supplies to supplement the regular market. If something more immediately catastrophic happens — Yellowstone National Park’s cauldron volcano blows and the sun is blotted out for a year, as some estimates suggest — we will need all the food we can get because we won’t be able to grow nearly as much. Sidney K. Harrell, Tampa