TAMPA — The Lightning have been extraordinary at home, and despite an ordinary start to their first game at Amalie Arena in nearly two weeks, they eventually found their footing with a flurry of goals in one of their most dominating performances on home ice this season. Playing a Ducks team with a league-worst minus-96 goal differential going into Tuesday night’s game, the Lightning were heavy favorites, but a scoreless opening period served as a wake-up call. What followed was one of their best periods of the season: four goals in a six-minute stretch and a 22-1 shot advantage. The result was a 6-1 rout of Anaheim, the Lightning extending their franchise record with their 15th straight home game with a point. The Lightning (36-17-3, 75 points) are 14-0-1 over their past 15 games at Amalie Arena and are averaging a league-best 4.14 goals a game at home. “We kind of heard it in the locker room after the first (period),” said forward Ross Colton, who had a goal and an assist. “Just too many turnovers and I think we were fueling their rush and kind of giving them too many chances, even though I thought we kind of dictated the play. ... At the start of the second, I thought we kind of dialed it in right away.” Center Brayden Point scored his 200th career goal, on a power play in the third period. He’s the fifth player in franchise history to reach the milestone and the second fastest (473 games) behind Steve Stamkos (354), the Lightning’s all-time goal scorer. “I’ve just gotten the puck in good places to score,” Point said. “It’s funny watching (Victor Hedman), he just got 500 assists, and Stammer’s hitting 500 (goals), 1,000 (points), and I have 200 (goals). So it’s a little humbling, that’s for sure.” Center Nick Paul opened the scoring with his career-high 17th goal of the season at the 7:15 mark of the second period. He took a pass from rookie defenseman Nick Perbix, who notched his second career three-assist game, and charged through the neutral zone, finding open ice toward the right circle. Paul then snapped a shot past Ducks goaltender Lukas Dostal. That kind of take-charge play set the tone for the Lightning in the period following an opening 20 minutes in which they passed up shots to try to get better ones, leading to turnovers. “I was sitting on 16 for a while there and clutching my stick a little bit,” said Paul, who scored his first goal since Jan. 16 in Seattle. “I saw (Lightning founder and radio color analyst) Phil (Esposito) at dinner the other day and he told me to shoot the puck, and it ended up working. ... I think a little bit here, I’ve been kind of stuck in quicksand. I’ve got to get my feet moving, attack players, attack the net, attack open space, and then from there I can start making plays.” After going scoreless on their first three power plays of the night — and going 1-for-13 on the road trip before that — Colton cashed in for the second power-play unit, rocketing a one-timer from above the right dot for a 2-0 lead. Colton also assisted on the fourth goal of the period, by Zach Bogosian. Anthony Cirelli scored with 9:09 left in the second, his third goal in the past five games. Perbix set up the score with a pass through traffic to Cirelli camped in front. Cirelli faked a forehand move and pulled the puck back for a backhand shot that found the back of the net. Bogosian’s goal from the point with 6:50 left in the second was his first of the season. “I thought we kind of dug in a little bit there and had a little bit more net front, a little bit more snarls in front of the net,” coach Jon Cooper said, “I think that opened up some stuff for us and started working for us. It was probably a little bit more blue-collar hockey helping us in that second period.” Point and Corey Perry scored in the first 2:23 of the third to pad the Lightning lead. The Ducks (17-34-7, 41 points), who entered tied with Columbus for the lowest point percentage in the NHL (.360), put pressure on the Lightning in the first. Andrei Vasilevskiy was superb early, keeping it scoreless with a 12-save first period. That included five saves in a 10-second sequence when he dropped down and denied the Ducks rebound after rebound with his pads. Vasilevskiy stopped the first 15 shots he faced before Ryan Strome ended his shutout bid with a goal at the 6:28 mark in the third period. “One of those goes in and who knows how this game goes,” Cooper said. “But he keeps it at zeros and then the guys take over after that.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.