It’s no secret that Netflix is cracking down on password sharing. Soon you’ll find yourself paying an additional charge if individuals outside your household access your Netflix account. While we don’t have details on when the change is rolling out, Netflix has already provided a tool to ease the pain — the profile transfer feature. Rather than bumping friends and family harshly out of the Netflix password-sharing nest, the profile transfer feature helps them pack their bags. If you’ve decided that you won’t be charged for that ex-partner or ex-roommate using your account to watch Netflix, they’ll need to create their own account (no more same account). The profile transfer feature enables them to take their Netflix profile with them, so they don’t leave behind their watchlist, watch history and custom-tailored recommendations. After endless hours of “Stranger Things” and “Wednesday,” they won’t want to start over with a blank Netflix profile with their new Netflix subscription — they’ve worked for those recommendations. How to migrate Netflix profiles Transferring Netflix profiles (Netflix users) to new Netflix accounts is easy, and we are here to show you exactly how you can complete the process and end your password-sharing situation. To begin, you’ll first need to turn on profile transfers within your account, then follow these detailed instructions. The price for Password sharing Netflix has been looking for a way to increase its bottom line after losing nearly 1.2 million subscribers in the first two quarters of 2022, and additional charges for password sharing or account sharing may be its answer. While we can’t tell you when Netflix password-sharing fees will go into effect, we estimate they will cost you an additional $3 to $4 per person. We don’t know how the streaming giant will identify password-sharing situations, but tracking IP addresses and device IDs is one possible way — although both of these situations could cause havoc for Netflix subscribers who travel for business or pleasure or don’t reside in one primary location for an extended period. Save with an ad-supported plan If you don’t wish to boot others off your account but want to save money while others are watching Netflix on your dime, you may want to consider the company’s new Basic with Ads subscription tier. At only $6.99 a month, you can enjoy a 720p HD ad-supported Netflix experience on a single device at a time. This story originally appeared in The Penny Hoarder.