Drivers and joggers on Bayshore Boulevard have watched for several years as a highly anticipated addition to the South Tampa Skyline has evolved from the ground up. Now the developer is ready to let the public look inside. The 22-story, 70-unit Hyde Park House has polished off all its construction and fully opened all of its facilities to residents at 2013 Bayshore Blvd., according to developers Kolter Urban, which this week released some of the first photos from inside the project. Hyde Park House has a mix of two-, three- and four-bedroom units with outdoor terraces overlooking Hyde Park, Hillsborough Bay and the downtown Tampa skyline. Condos range in size from 1,900 square feet to more than 5,000 square feet for the penthouses. Amenities include a 24-hour concierge, private elevators, rooftop pool, fitness center with a personal training studio, social clubhouse, catering kitchen and outdoor kitchen with fire pits. Residences went on sale early last year and quickly sold out at prices ranging from $1.1 million to $6.8 million, according to Hillsborough County records. Residents have been moving in since last fall, with the final closing taking place in December. “Tampa remains a highly coveted real estate market, and we are thrilled with the strong sales momentum Hyde Park House garnered since its launch,” Florida’s West Coast regional president at Kolter Urban, Brian Van Slyke, said in a statement. “It is beyond rewarding to witness its successful completion and welcome residents home, and we are excited to continue offering dynamic residences such as Kolter Urban’s recently launched ONE Tampa tower in downtown.” Kolter has other high-profile residential towers in the works around Tampa Bay. In St. Petersburg — where Kolter built the city’s tallest tower, One St. Petersburg — the company is developing two giant towers, the 35-story Saltaire and 42-story Art House. And in downtown Tampa, the company is planning a 42-residential tower that drew the ire of historic preservationists who fought Kolter’s plan to tear down two century-old buildings. Kolter came out ahead, and the buildings came down last weekend.