The big story: “Black history is American history.” That’s the message that a crowd of hundreds of mostly Black protesters brought to Tallahassee on Wednesday, as they rallied against the policies of Gov. Ron DeSantis. Led by the Rev. Al Sharpton, the group argued that DeSantis, who’s expected to run for president, is a threat to the civil rights of Black people, the LGBTQ community and migrants. “What we are trying to do is make sure that Florida doesn’t set a national standard,” Sharpton said at the end of a three-hour rally. Read more here. Hot topics Walking to school: About 40% of Hillsborough County communities have no safe access to walking paths, and the school district has eliminated all “courtesy” bus rides for children living within 2 miles of schools. That’s where crossing guards like Robin Graham come in. Vaping: The Hillsborough County Commission wants to ban sales of vaping materials within 500 feet of schools. TikTok: Gov. Ron DeSantis called for a ban of the Chinese social media company at all state public schools and universities. Teachers: The Volusia County school district is the latest to turn to international teachers to fill its vacancies, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. • St. Lucie County teachers will get bonuses thanks to a voter-approved tax referendum, TC Palm reports. Superintendents: Broward County’s new interim superintendent pledged to tackle student academics and school safety while on the job, the Sun-Sentinel reports. • The Charlotte County School Board set a salary cap of $225,000 for its next superintendent, the Sun reports. Security: A Lee County high school experienced its third student with a gun on campus in a year, the Fort Myers News-Press reports. • The Florida Department of Education refuses to provide details about school guardian disciplinary actions, despite calls for transparency, WFTS reports. New College: Students who attend New College hoped Gov. Ron DeSantis wouldn’t pay attention to their school, the NY Times reports. • The Florida Legislature approved an immediate $15 million allocation for the school, to help it pursue a new mission under its revamped leadership, the Herald-Tribune reports. High school sports: A Florida House committee moved to give the governor the power to appoint all the members of the FHSAA board of governors, WKMG reports. The board recently came under scrutiny as it debated whether to ask girls about their periods on its annual participation form. Book challenges: The DeSantis administration is defending efforts to remove books from schools that it says include pornographic and sexual material, Daily Signal reports. Some staff members have posted examples on social media to make the point. • The Broward County school district has pulled an illustrated sex education book from three school libraries for review, WFOR reports. Board politics: Several of the state’s conservative school board members have relaunched an organization to serve as an alternative to the Florida School Boards Association, Florida Politics reports. Attendance zones: The Palm Beach County School Board unanimously approved new boundaries for several high schools after a lengthy heated meeting, WPTV reports. • Hernando County’s superintendent announced the entire school district will be rezoned for the 2024-25 school year, Suncoast News reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s the link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... And now for something educational. What are cells, anyway? Videos that break down ideas into something understandable are great. • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.