LAKE BUENA VISTA — Non-roster reliever Graham Spraker is excited about pitching for the Great Britain team in March’s World Baseball Classic. And still a little bit dazed about how he got there. Spraker, 27, was doing workouts a couple months ago near his Phoenix home with a friend who was involved with the Italian team who asked if Spraker was participating. Spraker, a former Blue Jay who has reached only the Triple-A level so far, knew he wouldn’t make the U.S. team but said he might have British roots. “I really didn’t know,” Spraker said. The friend passed on a phone number for a connection with the British team, and Spraker, who was born in Wisconsin, reached out. He got a quick reply and was told they’d get back to him. A month passed and a few weeks ago he finally got a call from bullpen coach Conor Brooks saying they wanted him on the team and to send along his qualifying documentation. A few days later, Spraker got approved. The connection was that his mother was born in Hong Kong and had a British passport, as Hong Kong was under British control until the 1997 shift to the People’s Republic of China. Because his mother, born Mei Wong, had her original expired passport and additional documentation of her name change — to Mae Spraker — he was approved under World Baseball Classic rules covering lineage. Official word that he made the team came the same day he finalized his deal with the Rays. “It was like a 24-hour panic, honestly,” he said. “I had no idea I was in anywhere, then I was playing baseball everywhere.” Glasnow down, out for Fan Fest Starter Tyler Glasnow missed a scheduled Saturday bullpen session and an appearance at the team Fan Fest due to a stomach bug that hit him hard on Friday morning. He said he was feeling a little better Saturday. … Sunday is team photo day and report day for position players. Manager Kevin Cash said the only player not expected until Monday is infielder Yandy Diaz, who also skipped Fan Fest due to a family scheduling issue. Arbitration roundup The Rays won their final two arbitration cases, with relievers Colin Poche and Ryan Thompson. Poche filed for $1.3 million while the team offered $1.175 million; Thompson’s numbers were $1.2 million and $1 million. The Rays lost their first two cases, which are decided by three-arbiter panels. Outfielder/DH Harold Ramirez got $2.2 million instead of $1.9 million and reliever Jason Adam $1.775 million instead of $1.55 million. The team is 9-8 in cases overall in 26 seasons. Miscellany Shane McClanahan and top prospect Taj Bradley were among the pitchers throwing bullpen sessions Saturday. Cash said McClanahan looked “pretty close to midseason form” and that between Bradley’s build and clean delivery “you can certainly understand why we’re so high on (Bradley), why the industry is so high on him.” … Infielder Daniel Robertson, who signed a minor-league deal last week, reported Saturday and said it was good to be back, having been with the Rays from 2015-2020. … Cash said it’s not a major concern that both top catchers —Christian Bethancourt for Panama and Francisco Mejia for the Dominican Republic — will miss several weeks of camp to participate in the World Baseball Classic. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.