LAKE BUENA VISTA — Shane McClanahan has been putting in work all offseason and throwing bullpen sessions for weeks. Thursday was only a 20-pitch live batting practice session on a back field at Disney’s Wide World of Sports complex, but to the Rays’ top left-handed starter, facing hitters again made it feel like opening day. “It felt really good to be back,” McClanahan said. “You work all spring, and in January and February throwing your bullpens and stuff, but I feel like nothing can really simulate when you’re out there. That’s where you really see how everything’s playing and what you need to work on maybe a little more and stuff like that. Overall, I felt like it was a really productive day.” McClanahan clocked in the upper-90 mph range which, as manager Kevin Cash noted, is “always nice to see in February.” Facing a group of top Rays hitters — Randy Arozarena, Manuel Margot, Harold Ramirez, Brandon Lowe and Jose Siri — McClanahan said he felt good letting the ball fly. “I feel like you can really never simulate (velocity) in a bullpen (session),” he said. “There’s just no adrenaline, there’s no batter in there. It’s one of those things where you just know it’s gonna be there when you need it. It was good to see (Thursday). “Everything, I felt like I was commanding well. I could have probably thrown a couple change-ups better. But it’s still early. It’s still February. And I’m excited to work on that.” Lefty Jeffrey Springs, who has been working on breaking-ball command, and Yonny Chirinos, who may be the first option if the Rays need starter help, also faced hitters. Pitching plans The Rays released their tentative pitching plans for the first week of exhibitions, which start Saturday in Fort Myers against the Twins with non-roster invite Cooper Criswell on the mound. As of now, the rotation looks like this, with starters likely limited to one inning on their first turn: Sunday at Red Sox, top prospect Taj Bradley; Monday at Orioles, non-roster invitee Elvin Rodriguez; Tuesday vs. Yankees (at Disney), Springs; Wednesday at Braves, McClanahan; March 2 vs. Twins (at Tropicana Field), newcomer Zach Eflin; March 3 at Blue Jays, Drew Rasmussen. Tyler Glasnow, the fifth member of the projected rotation, will throw a second live batting practice on Tuesday, then join the rotation. Miscellany Outfielder Ben Gamel passed his physical and formally signed a minor-league deal. He becomes the 81st player on the spring roster and will wear No. 9. The 30-year-old lefty hitter has played parts of seven season in the majors, last with Pittsburgh. ... Cash again raved about the “really, really good” work and energy during defensive drills, which Thursday included cutoffs and relays. “All the outfielders threw the ball well and hit the cut-off man,” he said. “The infield is playing really fast. It’s fun to watch (non-roster invite) Daniel Robertson and Wander (Franco) on the same field. You see about as good of glove work as you’re gonna see.” … Former Rays catcher Rene Rivera, who recently announced his retirement after playing parts of 13 seasons in the majors, was at the workout to do some World Baseball Classic-related TV work. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.