INDIANAPOLIS ― Some new Bucs season-pass members on a payment plan will pay more not to see Tom Brady next season. Despite the seven-time Super Bowl champion retiring for a second time Feb. 1, the Bucs have increased some season ticket prices by as much as 7.5%,  the maximum allowed for those who agreed to a 12-month payment plan. A year ago, the Bucs required new season-pass members to purchase tickets for both the 2022 and 2023 seasons, knowing  the 45-year-old Brady could  call it quits again after his third season in Tampa Bay. He did, of course, but costs are increasing on the Bucs to provide the in-game experience for which  they have received awards in the past. The Bucs say they are the first team in the NFL to offer interest-free payment plans for season-pass members. But a detail in the agreement allows them to increase ticket prices by no more than 7.5%  on those customers who opt for it. “We’re pleased to offer our fans the flexibility once again of spreading the cost of their season pass memberships over 12 months with our interest-free annual membership plan,” Chief Operating Officer Brian Ford said. “We were the first team to offer a year-round payment plan and our members view it as a valuable benefit. As we continue to focus on providing our fans with a first-in-class experience, we remain committed to delivering the best possible value through a year-round approach to membership that goes well beyond game day. “We believe we are priced competitively for the Tampa area and in comparison to other NFL teams.” The Bucs have been sold out for home games at Raymond James Stadium ever since Brady arrived. The pandemic limited attendance in 2020, the year the Bucs won Super Bowl 55. Ford said the team has not yet decided what — if any — increases there may be for tickets for season-pass members who are not part of the 12-month payment plan. Scott Reddick, 33, a season-pass member from Seffner since 2017, said he was surprised to discover his monthly payment for Bucs tickets was increased by approximately $60. “It’s not the fact they raised the prices,” Reddick said. “I’m a lifelong fan and would’ve paid it regardless. The way they went about it was very misleading and not transparent. That’s my gripe.” • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.