DENVER — Winning both regular season meetings against the Avalanche this season won’t take away the heartbreak from last season, but beating the defending Stanley Cup champions twice in a six-day span definitely felt better for the Lightning than merely earning bragging rights. Their 4-3 shootout win over Colorado Tuesday night at Ball Arena played out much differently than Thursday’s 5-0 win in Tampa. The Lightning never led until the end, when Steven Stamkos’ shootout goal held up as Andrei Vasilevskiy capped a 43-save effort with three stops in the shootout. They allowed the first goal of the game 50 seconds in and trailed 2-1 going into the third period, but earned their fifth triumph this season when trailing after two periods and improved to 7-2 in overtime. “We had a little stern talk with the boys after the second,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “We felt the game was obviously winnable. It was within reach, but the scoring chance being given up in the first two periods, it’s just not acceptable against a team like them.” It’s difficult to win on the road, and with its high altitude, Denver might be one of the toughest places to enter  and steal two points. But after a closely contested Cup final that included four games that were decided by one goal and two decided in overtime, it was fitting  this game was just as close. By the end, it had  a postseason feel. “We know the history we have between these guys and we want to beat them every single time we play them,” Lightning center Nick Paul said. “We don’t want to give them an inch. The crowd, you could hear it. Third period, it was getting pretty loud there.” With the win, the Lightning (35-16-2, 72 points) also moved into second place in the Atlantic Division, passing the Maple Leafs on points percentage, for the first time since Nov. 5. Here’s three things we learned from the Lightning’s latest win over the Avalanche. It’s not how you start, it’s how you finish… Captain Steven Stamkos thought the Lightning, who flew into Denver on Monday afternoon, started out slow because of the altitude. They actually had more scoring chances than Colorado in the first two periods, 25-23, according to Natural Stat Trick, but yielded some egregious chances early and allowed the Avalanche to set up traffic in front of Vasilevskiy. “He gave us a chance to come back,” Stamkos said of Vasilevskiy. “We weren’t here that long ago, but you forget it’s tough to get your wind here the first couple periods. I thought we were sucking wind there for a little bit and we got our legs in the third because Vasy gave us that chance. We knew we were still in it.” A Valeri Nichushkin screen in front took Vasilevskiy’s line of sight away on Artturi Lehkonen’s opening goal.  Nathan MacKinnon gave Colorado a 2-0 lead when he got an inside edge on Brayden Point to the back post for a tip-in at the 6:21 mark of the second period. Anthony Cirelli tied the game on the first shift of the third, and after Denis Malgin jumped onto the ice into the Lightning zone and intercepted a pass and scored, the Lightning got a huge goal from Vladislav Namestnikov to tie the game at 3-all. Vasilevskiy stopped 24 of the last 25 shots he saw after the MacKinnon goal in the second period, including two huge stops on defensive lapses in the final two minutes of regulation, including J.T. Compher’s open shot from right in front of the net. “The last time we played was noon on Saturday (against Dallas),” Cooper said of the slow start. “A lot’s happened since then. I think when you’re out of your rhythm, it can hurt you. For us, when we get these tough breaks, this is what can happen at times. So it takes a bit to get going and fortunately we can hang around ‘til we did get going.” But it is about how you start… Playing some of the top teams in the Western Conference, this four-game road trip is a litmus test for the Lightning, and to  open the trip with wins in Dallas and Colorado felt good in the Lightning locker room. The Lightning know they have to play better on the road, opening the trip with a .500 mark away from Amalie Arena. With four points  now on the trip, they have an opportunity to make this their best road trip of the season. “We knew this stretch was going to be key, playing some really good teams, especially from the west,” Stamkos said. “So to get these points early in a road trip is great, it gives you confidence. This is where you always talk about wanting to get a little greedy here on these trips. You say you want to get as many points as games played. We’ve got that already. So now let’s get some more.” Now, they have to guard against complacency. The Lightning are 3-5-1 on the second half of back-to-backs, and go into Arizona and the Coyotes’ 6,000-seat college arena Wednesday hoping to keep their momentum going before a Saturday night game in Las Vegas with two days off in between. “This is a good start but, it can’t finish here,” Cooper said. “Yeah, it’s gonna be a tough back-to-back, we’re going to get in late to Phoenix, but we have to find a way to grind and then see what happens there, and then obviously Vegas is a hell of a team. So the trip is far from over, but like where we are right now.” Nick Paul anchored solid third-line effort in return to lineup The Lightning had been without Nick Paul for the past two games, and his return to centering the Lightning’s third line gave Tampa Bay a boost. The line of Ross Colton, Paul and Pat Maroon has made a huge impact with heavy and responsible hockey on both ends of the ice. According to Natural Stat Trick, the Paul line had 15 shot attempts, 10 more than they allowed. Colton had one of the Lightning’s best looks early, taking a pass from Paul in open ice and just missing a tuck in inside the right post. Colton had another Grade-A look in the period, and Maroon had a breakaway in the third created by Paul. “Just keep your feet moving because that’s how you wear them down — just little pucks off the goalie, rebounds and then moving your feet, creating space and then making them work,” Paul said. “The more they’re in their (defensive) zone the more tired it is. When you’re on offense, you’ve got all the juice in the world.” For a big man, Paul can push the puck forward, and has been able to create opportunities for his linemates. He’s the catalyst of that line. “He’s a big, strong body and he can make some plays in the middle of the ice,” Cooper said. “He just gives us depth at that position and he’s an easy guy to play with. Yeah, we missed him when he wasn’t there. It was fortunate we won two games without him but glad he’s back.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.