Not exactly words of wisdom Florida bill would remove permitless carry of concealed guns | Jan. 31 “I think we can assume that our citizens are going to do the right thing when it comes to carrying and bearing arms” may be the dumbest comment I’ve ever heard from a person in leadership here in Florida, in this case the president of the Florida Sheriffs Association. Remove “the government permission slip” is another (that was the Florida House speaker). The citizens of this fine state deserve so much better. The victims of mass shootings at Parkland high school and the Pulse nightclub aside, this is not “conservative,” it’s just plain stupid. Just because 25 other states got it wrong, we don’t have to make it 26. I worry that, too often, only the extremists are making decisions for the rest of us here in the “free state of Florida.” Martin Fouts, St. Petersburg Where’s the logic? Florida bill would remove permitless carry of concealed guns | Jan. 31 Can someone explain to me the logic of allowing basically anyone to carry a concealed gun to our local supermarkets, our offices and worksites, our neighborhood parks and playgrounds, and our movie theaters and concert areas, but not to courthouses or legislative buildings? Proponents of the bill say, “I think we can assume that our citizens are going to do the right thing when it comes to carrying and bearing arms.” Why not let them carry guns into your workplace then? David Frishkorn, Tampa Maybe not so safe Florida bill would remove permitless carry of concealed guns | Jan. 31 The Republicans in Florida think it’s a good idea for legislation to allow people to carry concealed weapons without a permit or training. And yet, they refuse to allow weapons in courthouses, polling places or legislative meetings. What? So guns would be allowed everywhere except where legislators go. I guess this law isn’t so safe after all. Ann Jamieson, St. Petersburg ‘Woke’ gunfree zones Florida bill would remove permitless carry of concealed guns | Jan. 31 Will businesses that won’t allow firearms on their property be mocked as too “woke” for Florida? Dave Hennig, St. Petersburg