TAMPA — A medical procedure earlier in the week forced USF women’s coach Jose Fernandez to remain seated — and as calm as possible — during his team’s game Sunday afternoon against defensively ruthless Houston. Unfortunately for him, nearly everything he witnessed was extremely hard to take sitting down. Stunned by the Cougars’ sudden 3-point proficiency and stymied by their relentless man-to-man pressure, the No. 24 Bulls (22-5, 11-1 American Athletic Conference) staged a furious late rally before falling 71-69 before a Yuengling Center audience of 2,381. The loss snapped USF’s win streak at 12 games — one shy of the program record — and likely bounced the Bulls from the top 25 after a two-week stay. Down by as many as 13 in the second half, the hosts trimmed their deficit to one point twice down the stretch, including with four seconds remaining on guard Elena Tsineke’s traditional three-point play. After a quick foul on the other end, Houston senior Bria Patterson hit the second of two free throws to make it 71-69. USF had to settle for a short inbounds throw and couldn’t advance the ball past half-court on its final possession. “We knew Houston was going to come out and they were going to press and they were going to be all over us early,” said USF associate head coach Michele Woods-Baxter, Sunday’s de facto head coach while Fernandez sat and watched. “I think it took us a little while to adjust to the style of play. We had some early turnovers, especially in the first half (11 by intermission), and they were on fire.” None was more scalding than Cougars junior guard Laila Blair (game-high 30 points), who hit five of her team’s nine first-half 3-pointers as Houston — 320th nationally in the country in 3-point efficiency (23.9%) entering the game — went 9-of-17 from long range in the first half. Blair’s last 3-pointer of the half, from just inside the half-court line, came at the first-half horn. By contrast, the Bulls, tops in the AAC from 3-point range (34.6%) coming in, managed only six 3-point tries in the first half, hitting only two against Houston’s suffocating man pressure. “They mentally beat us in the first half,” said Bulls 6-foot-4 senior Dulcy Fankam Mendjiadeu, who finished with her 52nd career double-double (19 points, 19 rebounds). “They’re like, streaky,” Woods-Baxter said. “But once they started to hit a couple, yeah, we probably should’ve jammed them and got up in them a little more. We made that adjustment later, but early, I just thought they had some good looks.” The Cougars (10-13, 7-3) eventually cooled off, going 2-of-7 from long range in the second half, but limited the Bulls to only 11 3-point tries for the game — two shy of their season low. USF’s last 3-pointer of the day — by junior Sammie Puisis from the right side — tied the score at 58-all with 7:35 remaining. After Houston rebuilt its lead to four, the Bulls cut it back to one, 64-63, on a layup by 5-11 freshman Carla Brito (10 points). But Houston counter-punched with a put-back by Tatyana Hill on the other end. It was 67-65 when Woods-Baxter was issued a technical for being outside the coach’s box with 2:20 remaining. Blair made both free throws to again make it a two-possession game, and the Bulls managed one field goal the rest of the way. While shooting 52.3% from the floor for the game, USF’s 44 shot attempts were a season low. Tsineke led the Bulls with 24 points. Fernandez, who is expected to be in Orlando for Wednesday evening’s showdown at rival UCF, could only watch and wince. “For the fact that he even came here is huge, and that’s just the type of person he is,” Woods-Baxter said. “He wasn’t feeling well, but he knew for the kids he needed to be here. But I’m sure it was tough.” Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.