Pride, not politics The next generation and the hope vs. reality of the American dream | Letter, Feb. 15 Kids aren’t born with pride. It’s instilled in them. I was raised to love our country, to respect the flag and that there is no better country on the planet. It’s also how we raised our only child. One’s country is like one’s family, and respect for both begins at home. When our child went off to the University of Florida, she came home a more mature, happy, capable and gainfully employed young woman. The years there changed her politics significantly, but her feelings for America were still respectful. She and the rest of our family understand that the United States is going through a difficult time right now, but we’ve been through worse and always come out stronger. Our kids need support in so many ways. Agreeing with them that they’re living in the wrong country in the wrong time isn’t providing them anything but despair. The country may be suffering due to undeserving and selfish leaders, but no matter what, America doesn’t rise and fall because of politicians. It rises and falls in spite of them. David Fraser, Clearwater Give them IQ tests Haley announces presidential campaign, challenging Trump | Feb. 14 In her speech announcing her candidacy for the presidency, Nikki Haley, who is 51, advocated requiring competency tests for candidates 75 or older. I have another suggestion: Give all candidates an IQ test — followed by a lie detector test. Peter T. Castelli, Tampa Take my money DeSantis wants Hillsborough to refund sales taxes. How would that work? | Feb. 14 Gov. Ron DeSantis wants to refund the $570 million collected from Hillsborough County’s transportation sales tax that later was ruled unconstitutional. That would be messy, so I have a simple solution. I would like to donate my refund back to Hillsborough County to help fund our much-needed transportation improvements. That’s why we voted for the tax in the first place. How about that for an option? Where can I — and the thousands who agree with me — send their contributions? Sandra deDiego Sanchez, Tampa Do as I say Gov. DeSantis’ hypocrisy on the right to bear arms | Editorial, Feb. 14 My father passed away nearly 30 years ago, but I now suspect he might have been a supporter of Gov. Ron DeSantis. Seems his, and I would guess many of our parents’, mantra was, “Don’t do as I do. Do as I tell you.” David Lubin, Tampa