TEMPE, Ariz. — Nick Schmaltz and Clayton Keller scored in the shootout, and Connor Ingram stopped 47 shots for his first career shutout as the Arizona Coyotes beat the Lightning 1-0 on Wednesday night. Ingram made several stops on shots from point-blank range in the final 90 seconds of overtime and then stopped Brayden Point and Nikita Kucherov in the shootout as the Coyotes extended their season-high point streak to seven games (4-0-3). Brian Elliott made 26 saves for Tampa Bay, which had won three in a row and six of eight. The Lightning came in off an emotional 4-3 shootout win at Colorado on Tuesday night in a rematch of the 2022 Stanley Cup final. “Elliott kind of gets forgotten about, but he made some big saves himself,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “Goalies put on a clinic. It comes down to the skills competition at the end and they won it. That was it. Am I upset with our team? Not in the slightest.” The Coyotes split the season series against Tampa Bay and have beaten division leaders Boston, Carolina, Vegas and both 2022 Stanley Cup finalists at home in 5,000-seat Mullett Arena on the campus of Arizona State University. The Coyotes’ Troy Stecher was penalized for hooking with 10 seconds left in overtime, and after a Tampa Bay timeout, Kucherov hit a post with 3 seconds remaining to send the game into a shootout. Steven Stamkos beat Colorado with a shootout goal Tuesday. Tampa Bay outshot the Coyotes 47-26 but had only five shots in the third period. The Lightning failed to convert on five power play opportunities. The Lightning showed no early ill effects from their second game in two nights, outshooting the Coyotes 20-7 in a scoreless first period. Ingram faced 12 shots as the Coyotes killed two Lightning power plays, and the Lightning also hit a post. “I thought we did a lot of good things defensively,” Cooper said. “We didn’t give them a whole ton, but I think we got tired. In the third period, you could tell. Getting in at 3:30 in the morning last night, by the third period, we were a little tired and we saw what happened.” Notes Coyotes D Jakob Chychrun was a healthy scratch for the the third straight game. The NHL trade deadline is March 3. ... Lightning F Nicholas Paul played in his 300th NHL game. ... Tampa Bay is 3-6-1 in the second half of back-to-back games this season. ... Coyotes D Shayne Gostisbehere (upper body) participated in the morning skate three weeks after injury that was expected to sideline him 4 to 6 weeks. He missed his seventh straight game but could be back within a week. ... The Coyotes’ last seven-game point streak was a 5-0-2 run from Dec. 31, 2015, to Jan. 14, 2016. Up next Lightning: At Vegas on Saturday to conclude a four-game trip. Coyotes: At Los Angeles on Saturday. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.