DUNEDIN — Welcome to the new baseball: faster, crisper, with a whole new set of rules to learn. In order to make the game, which is built on tradition and history, more appealing to a wider — and younger — audience, Major League Baseball is making three big rules changes to try to put a more entertaining product on the field. “Our fans are saying they want shorter games,” MLB vice president of on-field strategy Joe Martinez said Wednesday during a demonstration at TD Ballpark, spring home of the Blue Jays. “The other thing that fans said that they want is more action in the game. It kind of goes hand in hand; crisper pace and more action makes sense. And what fans say they want to see more of are these events that involve player athleticism: more doubles, more triples, stolen base attempts, great defensive plays.” Baseball is implementing its most dramatic rules changes in decades to try to give the fans more of what they want and cut down on the things they don’t, like pickoff attempts, pitching changes and walks. MLB will use a pitch timer this season, enforce a ban on the shift and use larger bases starting with the first games of spring training. Pitch timer There will be a 30-second timer between batters, and pitchers will have 15 seconds (20 if a runner is on base) between pitches to begin their motion. During the windup, they can take one step back and one forward at the start of their delivery, but the pitch clock will stop when they step back a second time or laterally. From the stretch, pitchers must come to a complete stop with their feet set. The clock will stop when the pitcher lifts his free leg after holding that set position. If a pitcher fails to start his motion before the clock hits zero, the batter will be awarded a ball. Batters also will be policed. They must be in the batter’s box and “alert to the pitch” with 8 seconds on the clock, meaning both feet in the box, head up, looking out at the pitcher and in a position to react. The batter does not have to be in his stance. He does have one timeout per plate appearance. If the hitter violates this rule, a strike will be awarded to the pitcher. Additionally, part of the rule limits pitchers to two pickoff attempts or stepoffs before incurring a penalty. If a pitcher is unsuccessful at a third “disengagement,” a balk will be called and the runner will advance. The pickoff/stepoff limit resets any time a runner advances. Clocks have been installed on either side of the batter’s eye in every ballpark and behind home plate. Clock operators are hired by MLB to work with the umpires, who have ultimate control of the timers. Umpires may use their discretion to reset clocks in situations such as an injury or a PitchCom malfunction. The pitch clock resets on an out or any time a runner advances. The clock rulings are not reviewable. With the use of these rules in the minor leagues, game times were shorter by an average of 25 minutes. There were 26% more stolen base attempts, according to MLB. A side effect likely will be more balks called as umpires need to focus more on pitchers’ feet to see when their delivery motion begins. Shift ban Two infielders must be positioned on either side of second base, on the infield dirt, when a pitch is released. They may not switch sides during an inning unless there is a substitution made. The players’ positions must be clearly marked on the lineup. The strict switching rule is to prevent teams from swapping their best defender to the hitter’s pull side in a de facto shift. Umpires will be policing the placement of players, making sure they are in the infield, which has been regulated to a 95-foot radius drawn from the center of the pitching rubber (the infield dirt). Outfielders still can shift and come in as a fifth infielder. Calls on the shift ban are reviewable. They can be declined by the team on offense, so if the team hits a home run, they can decline the violation and take the run. Violations will result in a ball being called against the defense. Batting averages have been on a steady decline since defensive shifts became the norm in 2019, to a paltry .243 in 2022. MLB expects the shift ban to help them rise again. Larger bases MLB has added 3 inches to first, second and third base, not only to encourage teams to steal more but also to help improve player safety. The bases, noticeably bigger at 18 inches by 18 inches, will reduce the distance from home plate to first base by 3 inches and first to second by 4.5 inches. Still, the league maintains the sacred 90 feet “between” bases with positioning. The measurement always has been taken from home plate to the back corner of the bases, so that will not change. When testing these bases in the minors, there was a 13.5% decrease in injuries. There will be more room for a defender to make a play and less chance for a runner to step on a first baseman’s or pitcher’s foot as he tries to leg out a hit. The shorter distance between bases also encourages base stealing, which saw a 1% increase during the minor-league testing. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.