LAKE BUENA VISTA — The scouting report says you should be optimistic. Maybe even excited. A left-handed-hitting outfielder with power? Isn’t that exactly what the Rays were looking for all offseason? This guy has been a .298 hitter with a .934 OPS in more than 700 plate appearances in parts of three Triple-A seasons. He’s got the arm to play rightfield, enough athleticism to have occasionally played center and a first baseman’s glove stashed in his locker. What’s not to like about Luke Raley? Well, he doesn’t have Michael Brantley’s resume. Or Brandon Belt’s career numbers. Or Josh Lowe’s potential. Raley does not have the pedigree of some of the free agents the Rays pursued in the offseason, nor is his ceiling quite as high as Lowe’s. There is a Plan B quality to his candidacy for the starting job in rightfield, yet the Rays kept a spot for him on the 40-man roster all winter at the expense of losing some talented players. It was a bit of a risk for a hitter with fewer than 150 plate appearances in the big leagues at age 28, but it’s a clue to how tantalizing Raley’s bat has been in the minors. “There’s a lot of players with similar track records, it’s kind of like they’re just starving for that opportunity,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “Raley has come up (to the majors) but he’s not consistently gone out there and played. I don’t know if he’s going to get that lane, but we like him a lot. He’s got a lot of power. He made some good adjustments this offseason, and maybe he does put himself in a situation where he’s getting reps five out of seven days. “There’s a lot of power there.” Trying to adjust to big-league pitching is difficult in the best of situations, but it can be maddening when at-bats are limited to sporadic appearances. Especially for a 6-foot-4 player with a power swing. When Raley got six consecutive starts with the Rays last July, he hit .368 with a .632 slugging percentage in 24 plate appearances. But, with those type of at-bats harder to come by in bunches, his batting average was .119 in other situations. “If you’re hitting in Triple-A, you can hit in the big leagues,” Raley said. “Yes, it’s a little bit of a difference, you’re seeing great arms every day in the big leagues. I understand that. But I’m ready for it to transfer over. And I’m certainly not making excuses. It’s not that I may only get an at-bat every three days. That can’t matter. If that’s my role, I’ve got to be able to succeed in that role. And I know I can do it, I have the confidence. “I didn’t always feel this way, mentally. It’s something I’ve had to grow into. I wanted to come to the big leagues and be one of those guys that gets talked about all the time. No one ever dreams of being the guy that’s on the bench or being moved around, but you have to do it. It’s got to be a role for somebody. And I would take that role over being in the minor leagues.” To better prepare himself, Raley tinkered with his swing in the offseason to be able to handle the increased velocity he was seeing in the majors. Instead of using a bigger leg kick, he shortened his stride and had less hand movement. Essentially, he tried to simplify his approach. “I wanted to cut down on all the moving pieces,” he said. “It’s going to keep my head more still and minimize the movement in the box. I think it’s going to make me more efficient to the ball.” It might have been safer for the Rays to sign Brantley, but he got $12 million to stay in Houston. And Belt went to Toronto on a one-year deal for $9.3 million. Meanwhile, Lowe is back in camp after struggling through his rookie season, and the Rays still have high hopes for his future. So where does Raley fit in? He’s more than just an insurance policy. If all goes well for him this spring, there’s a decent chance he’s in the lineup on opening day because he has no minor-league options remaining and the Rays could use the extra thump in the middle of the order. Whether he can hold on to the job long-term is up to Raley. Lowe will undoubtedly get another shot this season, but the possibility of injuries or at-bats at designated hitter could be in play. Cash also told Raley not to get rid of his first baseman’s mitt. “I’m just going to do what I’m told,” Raley said. “Whatever my job is doesn’t matter as long as I’m on the field.” John Romano can be reached at jromano@tampabay.com. Follow @romano_tbtimes. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.