PALM HARBOR — Ronde Barber can finally celebrate. After getting elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame earlier this month, the former Bucs cornerback had to keep the secret from most people for three weeks before the big reveal during Super Bowl 57 week. Now, his fans back in Tampa Bay can fete him. As the general chair of the Valspar Championship, Barber spoke about his Hall selection Tuesday during media day at Innisbrook Resort, site of the PGA event. He will be honored after the first day of play on March 16. “I understand that I’m being used to sell tickets and I’m happy to do that,” Barber joked. “For me, it’s all about the tournament. This is a great chance to bring more color to the event. We’ll have gold day to kickoff.” But back to that Hall selection: The 47-year-old Barber said his reaction to getting in was “finally.” “I cried a little, hugged my wife and my best friends that were there and said, finally. I’m that guy. It took me a long time to get to where I am but I truly believed that I was gonna get there. So it wasn’t a surprise.” Barber was a member of the NFL All-Decade Team for the 2000s at cornerback, a five-time Pro Bowl selection and a three-time first-team All-Pro. He played in 241 games, starting 232. After his rookie season Barber did not miss a game for 15 consecutive seasons. He also recorded 47 interceptions and 28 sacks. “I just had great production out of that position, and nobody had that type of production before me really and nobody’s had it after me yet,” he said. “The game has changed a little bit. There’s a lot more opportunities for guys to do it. But, being able to do it for 15 years and not miss a game. That should say something and I think it finally did.” Barber thinks he played on a Hall of Fame defense that should be recognized. “Our group, we’re respected. Not many teams have a defense named after them,” Barber said. “We had Shelton Quarles and Hardy Nickerson running through the middle of a Cover 2 and that turned into Tampa 2, but it took great players to be able to play that defense as much as we did. “Especially Derrick (Brooks) and I and underneath coverage and having great rush-man like Warren (Sapp) and Simeon (Rice), who should also be in consideration for the Hall of Fame. There’s a reason why our defense was so good for 10 years.” When Barber is enshrined Aug. 6 in Canton, Ohio, it will be his first time visiting the Hall of Fame. “We played there. I didn’t go in. I’ve been there five times. I’ve never gone through the Hall. I was purposefully waiting until I had my opportunity to go in,” he said. And he will take his twin brother, running back Tiki Barber, with him in a way. “In the recesses of my mind I wonder if he’s envious or even happy for me. We competed a lot growing up, and to be honest with you, I spent a lot of my career trying to get out of a shadow and be Ronde Barber, not Tiki’s twin,” he said. “And when I got the call to the Hall, one of the things that I really wanted was him to be around. ... And the first thing he told me when we got together in Phoenix … was ‘Now that you’re in I’m in.’ “We’re identical twins, one egg split the two, so kind of, I guess I get that,” Barber said with a laugh. “But it gives me an opportunity to talk about him and his career now. He had a great career. Not enough people give him credit for it. They’ll hear about it from me.” Valspar Championship March 16-19, Innisbrook Copperhead Course, Palm Harbor Gates open, 7 a.m. TV: 2-6 p.m., March 16-17 and 1-3 p.m. March 18-19, Golf Channel; 3-6 p.m., March 18-19, NBC More: Tickets and other info, visit here. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.