Last year, Florida nursing homes were cited over 80 times for violations that put residents living inside at risk of serious harm, injury or death. Twenty percent of these violations occurred in Tampa Bay. Known as class 1 deficiencies, these violations are the most severe citation the state can levy against a facility. They require “immediate corrective action” because they place residents’ wellbeing in jeopardy. The 83 violations weren’t the only deficiencies found inside Florida’s roughly 700 nursing homes last year — they’re merely a snapshot of the ones that the state considers the most egregious. The nursing homes, the severe violations they received and the full inspection reports for each incident are below. What does a serious violation mean? Serious violations should be considered in a larger context, said Lindsay Peterson, a long-term care researcher and professor at the University of South Florida School of Aging. “A family member needs to read the (inspection) report,” she said. “What actually happened? It’s just a matter of thinking about what went wrong and why that went wrong.” The guiding question to ask, Peterson said, is whether the violation seems indicative of a larger problem. “It could be a one-off,” she said, “But you have to look at other things (to find out), like their staffing rating.” Read the nursing home’s other recent inspection reports using state and federal tools. Has it experienced similar issues in the past? Look at how it fares on other metrics, such as staffing and overall star rating, on the federal website Care Compare. And what actions has the nursing home taken to fix problems and prevent future incidents? How can you see if nursing homes fixed problems? Individual violations provide a snapshot of a particular moment at a facility. State and federal agencies that regulate nursing homes often say they aim to work with long-term care facilities to help them improve care down the line. (The Florida Agency for Health Care Administration, which regulates long-term care facilities and issues these citations, declined multiple requests for comment for this story.) “There are regulatory requirements and penalties in place to ensure corrective measures are implemented after a citation, and we work with centers in their efforts to take those appropriate steps,” said Kristen Knapp of the Florida Health Care Association, an industry group that represents 80% of nursing homes statewide. “We believe it’s important our oversight system recognizes good faith efforts to remedy identified issues so as to promote improvement, not just penalize.” Inspection reports often note a nursing home’s “plan of correction,” which details how the facility aims to remedy the underlying issues that led to the serious violation. Follow-up inspections, which can be viewed on the Agency for Health Care Administration’s website, show how a nursing home may have improved since the citation.