SARASOTA — Brandon Lowe had to prove to himself this winter that his back finally was healthy again. Now, the left-handed, power-hitting second baseman wants to prove that the faith the Rays showed in him and his teammates was well-placed. In his first game back since September, Lowe singled and came away healthy in the Rays’ 14-2 win over the Orioles at Ed Smith Stadium. Tampa Bay’s offense exploded with home runs from Wander Franco, Yandy Diaz and Randy Arozarena. “I think it shows everybody what could be,” Lowe said. “I know that the big gripe of the offseason was everybody thought that we didn’t make enough moves. (Baseball operations president) Erik (Neander) and the rest of the front office sat back and said we have the talent here, they just need to be healthy. I think that was kind of on show (Monday), what a few healthy guys in our lineup will do for us offensively.” Lowe, who was limited to 65 games last season with a stress reaction in his back, showed the potential to be the lefty power bat the Rays need when he is healthy. In 2021, he hit 39 homers, drove in 99 runs and had an .863 OPS. Monday was a step toward getting back to that. “Brandon looked good,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “He stayed in against the lefty. He just missed the ball to deep right, but he looked totally under control and just as powerful with as much torque and intent as you’re accustomed to seeing.” Wander is ready In his first at-bat of the spring, Franco sent a ball sailing about 10 rows deep into the leftfield stands. In his second, he singled to rightfield. In his third, he bounced a ball off the leftfield wall for a two run-double. Franco drove in four runs in three at-bats for a good day of work. “I am just hoping to do a good job,” he said. “I’m not trying to do too much and just try to do my job.” The shortstop was a big part of the Rays’ power display. Diaz hit a homer over the left-field fence to lead off the third, and Arozarena cleared the leftfield stands three batters later. “Encouraging,” Cash said. “It’s nice to see the guys get in there. I felt like all of the first part of the lineup did well. Wander looked good. Yandy looked good. Manny (Margot), (Isaac) Paredes, everybody had a bunch of good at-bats. It’s kind of one of those days where it all came together.” Game details: Rays 14, Orioles 2 Right-handed pitcher Graham Spraker impressed Cash with a scoreless inning of work. “Spraker is another guy that stood out. The one inning we didn’t make plays, he made some big pitches for himself and for us.” … The Rays’ defense also showed up. “Really good plays (Monday),” Cash said. “(Jonathan) Aranda made a couple of nice plays. Luke Raley, who doesn’t have a ton of reps over first, and then (Evan) McKendry kind of got himself out of the jam there (with a double play).” … The Rays got their first win of the spring. Miscellany Gates for Tuesday’s game against the Yankees at Disney will open to fans at 11 a.m. … New York will be bringing big-leaguers Gleyber Torres, Jose Trevino and Oswald Peraza, but not Aaron Judge. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.