The big story: Florida’s dispute with the College Board continued to broaden, with Gov. Ron DeSantis’ suggestions that perhaps the state can do without the organization’s courses and exams beginning to take shape. Top state officials said they had been in conversations with Classic Learning Test — developed in part by DeSantis appointee to the New College board of trustees Mark Bauerlein — to implement that exam as an alternate to the College Board’s SAT. The Classic Learning Test supporters tout it as being focused on the “great classical and Christian tradition,” a movement that has been gaining traction in some charter and private school circles. Read more about classical education here. A move away from the College Board would not come without consequences. Tens of thousands of teens take Advanced Placement courses annually with the hope of earning college-level credits. They also take the group’s SAT test to help them earn university entrance and Bright Futures scholarship eligibility. Here are four things to know as the state ponders the role of the College Board. The discussion about the organization’s future in Florida arose as an offshoot of DeSantis’ objections to some of the content in the proposed AP African American studies course. He called for changes before he would allow the Department of Education to consider approving it for use in Florida’s public schools. Much of the dispute centered on key ideas and phrases that have become politicized. The Washington Post examines how the course language changed over time. Four other states now are reviewing whether the course meets their policies and laws on teaching about race, Axios reports. The argument has become much more than academic. Black leaders and activists are vowing to take to the streets to fight against what they view as DeSantis’ assault on civil rights. The conservatives are standing firm in their effort to advance a counter-revolution and purge what they call “woke-ness” out of the schools, government and society. Some people have asked whether DeSantis took any AP courses while attending Dunedin High. The Daily Beast published a page from his yearbook indicating that he was given an AP American History Award in 1996. Hot topics Book challenges: A Duval County substitute teacher who posted video on social media showing empty school library bookshelves was fired for violating the district’s cellphone and social media policies, the Washington Post reports. The dismissal came soon after Gov. Ron DeSantis called the viral video a “fake narrative.” More from WTLV. • Nineteen books are under review by the Volusia County school district, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. • Two Flagler County high schools rejected a request to remove the book “The Black Flamingo” from their shelves, Flagler Live reports. Committees determined the book was age-appropriate and was not pornography. • Alachua County school district officials said two books challenged by the conservative social media site Libs of TikTok have not been on school shelves for years, WCJB reports. • A group of St. Petersburg organizations responded to school book bans by opening a banned book library at American Stage. More from WFTS. Race lessons: A University of South Florida professor of Africana studies says teaching about Black history is a way to eliminate the shame of the segregation era, WUSF reports. • A 21-year Palm Beach Atlantic University English professor who teaches about racial justice has been informed his contract renewal is on hold while officials look into the material he uses, WPBF reports. He’s been accused of indoctrination. Attendance zones: A proposed map of new boundaries for several Palm Beach County high schools was altered at the last minute, amid community complaints. The latest version heads to the School Board in early March, the Palm Beach Post reports. • The Broward County school district is rezoning students out of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High to ease crowding, the Sun-Sentinel reports. School safety: The Department of Education is looking into whether the Orange County school district underreported criminal activities on school campuses, WKMG reports. Mental health services: The U.S. Department of Education announced it will grant $10 million to support seven Florida school districts’ expansion of mental health services, Florida Phoenix reports. In other school news Rumors were spreading that the Manatee County school district planned to close Palma Sola Elementary in the fall. Officials announced they intend to rebuild the campus, not shutter it, the Bradenton Herald reports. The Osceola County school district sued an insurance consultant it accused of taking $4 million in secret payments from insurance carriers. It settled the case for $582,000, Florida Politics reports. The University of Florida has been planning a graduate school campus in Palm Beach County. The project could be in jeopardy as a donor demands the campus be named after him, the Palm Beach Post reports. Before you go ... Have you seen “Everything Everywhere All At Once” yet? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.