 Gov. Ron DeSantis recently declared that higher education should promote academic excellence, not political activism. Great grades, high test scores, honor society memberships and research publications are all great academic accomplishments. But they are not sufficient to produce a competent doctor. As a medical education professional for more than 10 years, I know that general medical knowledge is not enough; it’s essential to have the aptitude to understand the needs of each patient. Standards of professionalism and respect are also crucial. Academic excellence alone will not cut it. As the governor works to impose more and more restrictions on higher education, Floridians should be very concerned that these restrictions will make their way into the institutions that train our future physicians. Our medical systems are already grappling with reducing medical bias and inequities, and the governor’s pronouncements threaten to impede progress in undoing the effects of centuries of flawed science. The governor would ban support for diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) programs at state schools. He doesn’t seem to understand how they can make a doctor a better practitioner. Indeed, there are real issues in medicine today that require us to consider diversity and equity in our training. Here are just a few: * Dermatological conditions don’t look the same on everyone. Textbook images have been found to ignore the variety of skin tones doctors may see in the clinic. * Lack of transportation can be a barrier to health care access for many patients. Physicians should be taught to consider this when deciding which specialty office location to refer them to. * Not all medical devices work exactly the same for everyone. It is important for physicians to know that an oximeter might not give an accurate oxygen reading on dark skin. Unfortunately, past misbeliefs have had a lasting legacy. Research has found that half of white medical trainees believe Black people feel pain differently than white people. This history has influenced how some patients respond to physicians. Their “academic excellence” will not help them cope with such situations. Teaching these so-called soft skills could all fall under the subjective area of “wokeness” that DeSantis is looking to eliminate, all over the fear of indoctrination. But teaching someone to fully accept only the ideas, opinions and beliefs of a particular group is indoctrination. And that’s exactly what’s happening when we encourage students to ignore accurate and important historical contexts because they don’t align with a particular worldview. Perhaps the scariest part of DeSantis’ statement is the desire to avoid provoking activism, as if it is a bad thing. Physicians may indeed feel compelled to stand up for an issue that directly affects the lives of the patients in their care. They will be on the front lines seeing very real health outcomes every day. One public health crisis — lead in the drinking water in Flint, Michigan — was uncovered thanks to a pediatrician who actively stood up for her young patients. I would hope my child’s doctor would do the same. In DeSantis’ vision, doctors may shy away from this kind of advocacy. Clearly, we need physicians who possess critical thinking skills, an awareness of societal and environmental issues that can affect health, and feel empowered to advocate for their patients. Academic excellence alone is not enough. If higher education is forced to abandon learning objectives that foster inclusive perspectives and advocacy skills, the harm will not be abstract. Patients will suffer. Courtney Johns Rejano holds a Master of Public Health degree and is a doctoral student in medical anthropology at the University of South Florida. She has been a medical education coordinator since 2011.