Editor’s note: For years, the St. Petersburg Conference on World Affairs has brought together diplomats, journalists and academic experts to discuss key international issues. This year’s edition — Power and Empowerment — is planned as an in-person and livestream “hybrid” event. It will be held from Tuesday through Friday. It is free, but space is limited, and sign-up is required at worldaffairsconference.org. This column was written by a conference participant. Oswaldo Payá, a leading voice of opposition to Fidel Castro in Cuba, who was killed more than 10 years ago in a suspicious car wreck, left a potent legacy for a future generation fighting for democratic principles. It was just a single-page piece of paper creased at the half-fold. Those who are concerned about the current wave of repression on the island, and around the world, ought to carry it in their back pocket. Payá held a simple but bedrock belief: the rights of man are bestowed by God, not by the state. He devoted much of his life to a struggle for those rights in Cuba. It was a long, difficult effort, shared with others in the dissident community. They squared off against Castro’s formidable state security. Payá often received death threats, and many of his associates in the Movimiento Cristiano Liberacíon spent years in Castro’s prisons, including those seized in the “Black Spring” of 2003. What they were seeking is contained on the single-page citizen petition known as the Varela Project, named after Felix Varela, a 19th century priest, philosopher and Cuba’s most illustrious educator. The petition was Oswaldo’s idea, the culmination of years of trial and error in the methods for organizing and mobilizing people for change. In the 1980s he tried to persuade the Catholic Church to be at the vanguard, but the church, weakened by years of repression, chose reconciliation rather than confrontation. Then he began trying to organize the grassroots on his own. The movimiento was founded by Payá and several friends in 1988 to seek a “new era” of “freedom and democracy.” Payá had been inspired by Lech Walesa’s Solidarity labor movement in Poland. Payá was aware of a provision of the 1940 Constitution, Cuba’s most democratic, which provided that citizens could seek changes in law with a petition bearing 10,000 signatures. Surprisingly, the provision remained in force even after Castro took power in 1959, and it survived the 1976 revision, which brought the Cuban Constitution close to that of the Soviet Union. No one had ever successfully used the citizen petition provision before, although some other dissidents, notably Ricardo Bofill, had sought to gather signatures — only to be stopped by state security. During the desperate years of the “special period,” Payá began to collect signatures for several vague ideas, such as “national dialogue” and a referendum on change. He also wrote a lengthy plan for transition to democracy in Cuba. But at the time, people were hungry and distressed. The response to Oswaldo’s appeals was tepid, and in 1991, his home — where he collected the signatures — was the target of an acto de repudio, a government-sent mob attack. Payá didn’t give up. By the mid-1990s, he concluded that he needed something simple and direct. The Varela Project petition was exactly that: five demands for freedom and democracy. He envisioned freedom of expression, association, belief, free enterprise, and freedom for political prisoners, as well as a referendum for Cubans to decide their own future. This time, people responded. Eventually, some 35,000 signed their names, addresses and identification numbers — they stood up to be counted. Remarkably, Payá had no modern tools of communication, no iPhone or text messages, no access to radio or television or newspapers. The simple genius of the Varela Project was that it was a legal method, based on the Constitution. Payá was using a law of the state against itself — to demand democratic change. Payá eventually collected tens of thousands of signatures, hiding them with the help of Catholic nuns. He submitted 11,020 signatures to the National Assembly in 2002 and 14,384 the following year. Castro ignored him. The five demands of the Varela Project were never realized. But Castro could not ignore Oswaldo, who was persecuted and harassed for years after. The Varela Project had struck a nerve. At a news conference in 2002, Oswaldo held up the single-page petition that was the Varela Project. “Look how short it is!” he said. “They’re so afraid of it. This little paper, it contains the popular will.” He was right. The Varela Project was two decades ago, but what it stood for cannot be extinguished. The simple demands for freedom are vital for Cuba still, and in so many other corners of the globe where the lights of liberty are being dimmed. David E. Hoffman is the author of “Give Me Liberty: The True Story of Oswaldo Payá and his Daring Quest for a Free Cuba,” and a member of the editorial board of The Washington Post.