TAMPA — Other than the score, the Lightning outplayed the Coyotes in every facet of their game Wednesday. But because Arizona goaltender Connor Ingram had the best game of his NHL career, Tampa Bay had to settle for a single point, losing 1-0 in a shootout. The previous night, the Lightning left Denver more fortunate, exiting Ball Arena with two points against the defending Stanley Cup champion Avalanche after Steven Stamkos’ shootout goal lifted Tampa Bay to a 4-3 win. After having back-to-back games end in a shootout, the Lightning enter today with four games decided after overtime this season, going 2-2. Their other shootout victory came against the Rangers on Dec. 29. In overtime, Tampa Bay has been dominant, going into today 5-1 in the extra period. It won its first five games decided in overtime before suffering its first overtime loss Feb. 7 against San Jose. The NHL, coming off a lockout that wiped out the 2004-05 season, implemented shootouts following a five-minute overtime for the 2005-06 season to eliminate ties and add excitement to games. In 2015-16, the league went to the current 3-on-3 overtime format before the shootout. Historically, teams were awarded two standings points for a win, one point each for a tie and no points for a loss. With the advent of the shootout, teams that lose in overtime or a shootout still get one point. Players are becoming increasingly critical of extra points being decided by a shootout. Oilers star Connor McDavid said last month that more players would like to see a longer overtime session to avoid shootouts. It was a major topic at the All-Star Game this month in Sunrise, where the sentiment toward more overtime was overwhelming. It’s the same in the Lightning locker room. Though Tampa Bay has the skill to win shootouts more often than not, it would rather the extra point for a win be decided by actual hockey. “If there was one rule I would change, it would be to go from a five-minute overtime to 10 minutes,” defenseman Victor Hedman said. “I’m not a big fan of the shootout, to be honest. There’s a lot of guys who could make some skill plays, but I think it should be settled in a game like 3-on-3.” Commissioner Gary Bettman said at the All-Star Game that the competition committee is always looking at ways to improve the game and the league constantly receives opinions from players. “We do value the input of the players, and it’s something we get through the competition committee, and it’s something that we get on an informal basis,” said Bettman. “When players come through New York and sometimes stop by our office to do media, they come and visit me, and we close the door and kind of have an off-the-record conversation to see what’s on their mind.” Forward Ross Colton has been one of the Lightning’s most successful players in the shootout over the past three seasons, but he said he would prefer an extended overtime session. “For me, I enjoy the shootout, but on the outcome of the game, I think, obviously, the overtime is way better just because the better team could dominate the game and then (in) a shootout, I think anything can happen,” Colton said. “I think 3-on-3, kind of the better team usually does win even though it is up and down. It’s just more fair to the game, in my opinion, maybe extend (overtime) to like 10 minutes, and if there’s nothing after 10, then (go to) a shootout, because five minutes is pretty short.” On Wednesday against Arizona, Tampa Bay had a 47-26 advantage in shots on goal, including 37-13 after two periods. The Lightning continued to outplay the Coyotes in overtime, outshooting them 5-0. But Ingram, a former Tampa Bay prospect playing for the first time against his old team, denied everything that came his way. In the shootout, Coyotes forward Clayton Keller beat Lightning goaltender Brian Elliott top shelf with a backhander to open the third round, and Ingram made a left pad save to stop forward Nikita Kucherov’s back-door tuck attempt to decide the game. Lightning goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy told reporters at the All-Star Game that he’d rather skip overtime and go straight to a shootout. “No overtime,” he told Canadian TV network Sportsnet. “It will save us some time and goals against. When they play 3-on-3, it could be 2-on-1, odd-man rush, 3-on-2, 3-on-0. When you’re just 1-on-1 with a player, it’s (more fair).” Lightning forward Corey Perry, an 18-year veteran, said he is indifferent about longer overtime sessions but is concerned that the extra minutes could wear on a team’s top players. “Your big guys that are playing lots of minutes are already playing 18 to 22 minutes, and now they’re playing 24 to 25 minutes, so those are considerations,” Perry said. “But then the other side, yeah, the shootout is a crapshoot. It’s a skill thing. And you look at (Trevor) Zegras in Anaheim or (Evgeny) Kuznetsov in Washington, it takes them 12 seconds to get in and take a shot. “Guys with high skill may want the shootout. I look at it as there’s more minutes for the big guys that add up over a season if you’re going 10, 15 games in overtime.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.