DENVER — The Lightning and Avalanche met less than a week ago at Amalie Arena, with Tampa Bay earning a commanding 5-0 win Thursday that might have been one of its best all-around efforts of the season. The Lightning were able to slow down a fast Avalanche team by matching up the line of Brandon Hagel, Anthony Cirelli and Alex Killorn to lock down Colorado’s top scoring line of Artturi Lehkonen, Nathan MacKinnon and Mikko Rantanen. Playing on the road tonight in Denver, the Lightning won’t have the last change opportunity given to the home team, so creating those matchups will be more difficult. “We’ll see how it goes,” Lightning coach Jon Cooper said. “It’s more difficult this way, but always coach for your game.” With the teams facing each other for the second time in less than a week, expect the kind of adjustment-filled hockey you see in playoff series. In Tampa, the Lightning pressured the Avalanche at their own blue line, taking away their ability to build speed through the neutral zone and entering the offensive zone. That pressure led to turnovers and offensive chances the other way. Expect Colorado to make adjustments to its game tonight. “I think you’ve just got to be careful,” MacKinnon said. “We got burned in our zone a couple of times. It was a pretty even game, and we just made the bigger mistakes, and the next thing you know it’s 5-0. You’ve just got to be careful. Obviously, we’ve got to play our game. That’s a north game, playing quick, and we’re a good rush-attack team, so we’ve got to bring that no matter who we play.” Even though the score was lopsided, Avalanche coach Jared Bednar said he liked the way his team played. “I liked what we played for a large portion of that game,” Bednar said. “I actually had us playing really well through 40 minutes even though we made a couple of mistakes and we were down 3-0. And then after that, we kind of quit doing what we’re supposed to do. I feel like guys kind of knew it was out of reach with the way (Lightning goaltender Andrei) Vasilevskiy was playing. But I think we’ve got a few things we have to do better.” Bednar said he’d like to see his team be more assertive in defensive-zone coverage, specifically protecting the net front to prevent the Lightning from getting the screens, tips and rebounds they did last game. In the offensive zone, he said his team was probably too selective in its shot selection and needs to create more traffic in front of the net to take away Vasilevskiy’s line of sight. Game items: • Expect center Nick Paul to return to the Lightning lineup after missing the past two games with an upper-body injury. • Vasilevskiy is expected to start in goal. He recorded a 30-save shutout, his first of the season, in the first meeting between the teams. • Defenseman Cal Foote is expected to be in the lineup for the third straight game, with rookie Nick Perbix sitting. Playing time has been infrequent for Foote, who hasn’t played in three games in a row since mid-December. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.