DETROIT — With all due respect to Brayden Point and Nikita Kucherov, who scored critical goals Saturday night, goaltender Andrei Vasilevskiy deserved not only the first star of the game in the Lightning’s 3-0 win over the Red Wings, but the second and third as well. Vasilevskiy put on a show, registering his second shutout of the season with 45 saves, tying the Lightning franchise record for most saves in a shutout. You could pick any of about seven stops he made that were not only game changing but jaw-dropping. The Lightning, coming off a tough overtime loss to the Sabres on Thursday at home, needed a win like this. And Vasilevskiy, who yielded six goals on 23 shots against the Sabres but was the victim of several odd-man rushes and breakaways, thrived while seeing the puck more. “We needed that bounce-back game,” Vasilevskiy said. “Obviously, Detroit, they are hot their last 10 games. They’re fighting for the playoffs, but I thought we did pretty well, scored some important goals. Just no odd-man rushes, lots of outside shots and lots of blocks. So great job defensively by the whole team.” While the Lightning have tightened their grip on a top-three spot in the Atlantic Division, the Red Wings entered the night as one of five teams within a point of the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. Meaningful hockey late in the regular season has returned to Detroit under first-year coach and former Lightning assistant Derek Lalonde. “I feel like for every team in the league, it’s basically a playoff time right now,” Vasilevskiy said. “Everybody is fighting for a spot, and especially teams like Detroit and Buffalo, they’re all in. We have to be prepared, and we have to turn on that playoff mode already.” Vasilevskiy was busy all night; the Red Wings totaled 84 total shot attempts. Though the Lightning limited the odd-man rushes and breakaways that plagued them against the Sabres, they struggled to protect the soft scoring areas in front of the net. The Red Wings had 16 high-danger scoring chances. “That’s what you need sometime,” defenseman Victor Hedman said of Vasilevskiy’s performance. “We weren’t at our best, but this time of the year, you want to put teams behind you, and that’s nice. So a huge a two points, but obviously ‘Vasy’ was phenomenal.” Coach Jon Cooper was less flattering with his assessment of the game, saying, “It was like a pond hockey game for us at times. We just couldn’t execute at all.” Vasilevskiy set the tone with a 12-save first period that included a sensational pad save on forward Tyler Bertuzzi with 3:01 left and the Lightning leading 1-0 on Point’s goal. The Lightning were on their heels on an odd-man rush when Red Wings forward David Perron made a cross-slot pass to the far post, past Hedman lunging in an attempt to block it. Bertuzzi dropped to one knee to fire a one-timer toward an open net, but Vasilevskiy recovered, extending his left pad to cut off the post and block Bertuzzi’s shot. Vasilevskiy prevented a shorthanded goal in the second period, stopping defenseman Jake Walman’s slap shot from the right circle on a partial breakaway, then turning away his rebound attempt in front of the net with his right pad. Despite the Lightning being outshot 20-3 in the second period, Kucherov’s goal through Ville Husso’s five-hole with seven seconds left in the period gave the Lightning breathing room. Alex Killorn scored into an empty net with 2:13 left in the game to make it 3-0. Detroit forward Dylan Larkin had six high-danger scoring chances, and by the end of the night, he was looking to the sky for answers. Larkin was denied from the doorstep twice as Vasilevskiy kicked the puck away with his pad, and the goaltender snagged a Larkin tip-in attempt out of midair with his glove on a third-period power play. Despite being without defenseman Erik Cernak, who served the first game of a two-game suspension for elbowing the Sabres’ Kyle Okposo, the Lightning penalty kill was 4-for-4, not allowing a goal in 6:27 of shorthanded time in which Vasilevskiy saw 13 shot attempts. The Lightning also blocked 29 shots, including a team-high eight from Hedman. Defenseman Ian Cole had six blocked shots and forward Anthony Cirelli five. A busy night suited Vasilevskiy just fine. “I’m trying not to think too much during the game,” he said. “And obviously, when you have to stop, like, 40-plus shots, it helps because you don’t have time to think. But on the other side, when you face only the (23) shots like last game, you have lots of time to think and it kills yourself, in my opinion.” Contact Eduardo A. Encina at eencina@tampabay.com. Follow @EddieintheYard. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.