TAMPA — Todd Monken will not be returning to the Bucs. The Georgia offensive coordinator, who had the same role in Tampa Bay for three seasons (2016-18), was hired for that job with the Ravens on Tuesday. The Bucs will turn their attention to Dave Canales, who is credited with reviving the career of Seahawks quarterback Geno Smith last season. That alone makes him a good candidate for the Bucs’ offensive coordinator position. Canales is at AdventHealth Training Center this morning interviewing to replace Byron Leftwich, who was fired Jan. 19. Canales is the 10th candidate to meet with the Bucs about the position. Rams assistant head coach coach/tight ends coach Thomas Brown is scheduled to have a second interview with the team on Wednesday and will meet for a second time with the Panthers on Thursday. The Bucs also have interviewed Monken, Lions assistant head coach/running backs coach Scottie Montgomery, Broncos passing game coordinator/ quarterbacks coach Klint Kubiak, Jaguars passing game coordinator Jim Bob Cooter, Bengals quarterbacks coach Dan Pitcher, Giants quarterbacks coach Shea Tierney, Saints passing game coordinator/quarterbacks coach Ronald Curry and Vikings receivers coach Keenan McCardell. Pitcher was a strong candidate for the Bucs job but decided to remain in his current position with the Bengals after a second interview in Tampa Bay. Canales, 41, has been with Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll going back to their days at the University of Southern California. Canales played receiver and defensive back at Carson High School in California and was a receiver at Azusa Pacific University, then an NAIA program in California. He began his college coaching career at El Camino (California) College and joined Carroll at USC as assistant strength coach in 2009. The next season, Carroll hired him at Seattle to coach receivers. He became the Seahawks’ passing game coordinator in 2020 and was their quarterbacks coach last season. Smith was revitalized last season, passing for 4,282 yards with 30 touchdowns and 11 interceptions while leading the Seahawks to an NFC wild-card game against the 49ers. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.