The birds-eye view in the slide showed a winding drive from the Saddlebrook entrance through trees, lush vegetation and ponds leading to the community’s iconic resort area where top tennis and golf athletes have trained over the years. Ten-year resident Joann Barbetta used that image to help describe what that sense of place means to fellow residents and why the plans of Saddlebrook’s new owner, Mast Capital, are such a departure from what the community considers its identity. After numerous meetings with community groups and county officials, Mast wasn’t able to sway the County Commission on Tuesday to approve an amendment to its growth guidebook that would allow the company to possibly build new apartments and make other changes there. A vote in favor would have forwarded the proposal to the state for review. Commissioners spent nearly six hours listening to all sides and decided to delay a vote on transmitting the amendment to the Florida Department of Economic Opportunity until April. That is the first approval needed for the project to move forward and would be followed by land use changes that also go through public hearings. Mast bought the resort for $15 million a year ago and began to craft a new community plan. That plan includes updating the aging resort’s features. But residents most anxious about a proposal to close the existing driving range at the front of the community on State Road 54 and build 465 new apartments. Residents also oppose a plan to close nine of the 36 holes of the golf course designed by golfing legend Arnold Palmer. Mast Capital also is proposing a mixed-use development to the east of the entrance on S.R. 54 and a new driving range and maintenance area in the southeast corner of the community. Barbara Wilhite, representing Mast Capital, said that the changes requested have been discussed in detail with Saddlebrook’s residents and that the developer has been willing to incorporate community suggestions throughout the process. She also said that the existing development approvals have never been completely constructed. “We want it to be a world-class resort again,” said Jordan Kornberg of Mast Capital. “It’s been a long time since it’s seen improvements.” Developer representatives have agreed to establish a deed restriction promising the golf courses will remain in the community and committed that residents with a golf course view now would always have one. An earlier version created new residential areas where the nine golf holes would disappear. Commissioners complained Tuesday that important details, including the first look at the new areas for the driving range and maintenance area were not presented until the meeting. Attorney Jane Graham, who represents resident groups and individuals, told commissioners they could deny the request to transmit the plan to the state for any rational reason include compatibility, transportation concerns or impact on natural resources, all issues raised by residents. Rather than a development right, she said, “the developer is actually asking you for a favor.”