The longtime CEO of Metro Inclusive Health will retire in December, the nonprofit’s board of directors announced. Lorraine Langlois has served as the top executive at the LGBTQ health care provider since 1997, according to Brian Bailey, chief marketing and experience officer at the Tampa Bay area nonprofit. “It’s been 30 years without a lot of opportunity for work-life balance,” said Langlois, 66, in a statement. “With a great team in place to take the reins, it just felt like it was time.” Metro Inclusive Health, previously called Metro Wellness and Community Centers, has expanded significantly in the past 30 years. When it started, the nonprofit had a $42,000 operating budget and worked out of a church basement, according to its website. Now it has health centers in St. Petersburg, Tampa, Clearwater and New Port Richey. It provides primary care, counseling, HIV treatment and testing for sexually transmitted infections, among other health and community services. In 2020, the nonprofit employed 247 people, according to an annual tax form. Its revenue was almost $33.2 million. Langlois earned $385,242 as CEO. Last year, the nonprofit provided over $660,000 in free health care to the uninsured, according to Bailey. “I am humbled by the opportunity to have worked at a job I loved for so long and with such extraordinary people and leaders,” Langlois said in a statement. “The secret to our significant and long-lasting community impact has always been the unwavering dedication of the people of Metro who bring an unmatched emotional connection to the services they perform.” The board of directors said Priya Rajkumar, the nonprofit’s chief operating and programs officer, will take over as CEO on Jan. 1. Rajkumar joined the organization in 2008. She was previously a case manager at the Tampa AIDS Network and was a social worker in Brooklyn, N.Y. “With a supportive and enthusiastic management team in place, Priya will usher in a refreshed vision that will carry our organization forward for the next 30 years, and beyond,” Langlois said.