DUNEDIN — As soon as he hit “End” on the Zoom call, Kevin Kiermaier had a feeling he was heading north of the border. The Blue Jays were one of several teams that reached out when the smooth-fielding centerfielder became a free agent, and after a decade with the Rays it took just a few minutes on the call for him to feel like he could find a home with Toronto. “I told my wife right after, ‘I might be a Blue Jay.’ And I mean, that was immediately after the call,” Kiermaier said Monday while standing in front of his locker at the team’s spring training facility in Dunedin. .“... And then the conversations even after that, I knew another team was going to have to go even more above and beyond for me to get my thoughts off of (Toronto).” It was a weird year for Kiermaier, who spent the first 10 seasons of his major-league career not just as a Ray, but as a beloved face of the franchise. He played just 63 games in 2022 before undergoing season-ending hip surgery. After making Tampa Bay his home for the past 13 years, Kiermaier signed a one-year, $9 million deal with Toronto. Suddenly, he was driving to Dunedin to meet new teammates, coaches, clubhouse attendants and fans. The separation wasn’t really as clean and simple as that, though. Kiermaier, who will be 33 in April, not only made his home in Tampa Bay, he made a point of connecting with fans. For Teresa Hehemann and her mother, Helen, that interaction made Kiermaier their favorite player. They would seek him out at spring training to say hello. He remembered their names every spring, including during a tough time in Teresa’s life. “When my mother died,” Kevin and his wife sent a lovely arrangement to her service,” Teresa said. “That meant a lot to us.” Kiermaier said he thought about Teresa and a few other fans he had gotten to know when it was time for him to move on from the Rays. “I always said I want to give back to the people who are coming out and watching us. I want to give back to community. I want to talk to these people. I want to get to know people and create relationships, if possible,” Kiermaier said. “And I had probably, like, five or six different super fans who were super loyal people to me over the whole time I was with the Rays. Those were tough to say goodbye to. It was just such a fun chapter in my life, and I am excited to show what I can do (with the Jays).” What Toronto fans hope to see is Kiermaier’s defense, not his tendency toward injuries. The Blue Jays renovated the Rogers Centre outfield this winter, lowering the fence in centerfield from 10 feet to 8. They also revamped their outfielders. Signing Kiermaier gives them a better anchor at center and allows them to move George Springer to a less-demanding spot in right. They also traded for leftfielder Daulton Varsho, who brings an outs above average of plus-18. “We’re bringing in an elite defender for one and baserunner, and a left-handed bat that kind of balances out our lineup, too,” Blue Jays manager John Schneider said last week. “We were targeting players like that in terms of run prevention, and (Kiermaier has) definitely fit that mold. So we’re thrilled to have him and just kind of try to keep him on the field as much as we can.” Kiermaier has a career slash line of .248/.308/.407 with a .715 OPS. His defense, undoubtedly, is what has kept him in the big leagues. He’s won three Gold Gloves and one Platinum Glove (2015). In his last “healthy” season (2021, when he played 122 games), Kiermaier’s outs above average was plus-12, third-best among outfielders. He calls defense his “bread and butter.” “It’s what got me to the big leagues, called up to play defense in Game 162 in 2013 and in the playoffs,” Kiermaier said. “... So I knew if I kept my defense elite and hit enough, I could make a career. I know I may not light up a boxscore, but I am excited to show these guys what I can contribute and that I can be a game-changer.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.