TAMPA — While the Bucs’ roster remains in flux amid glaring salary-cap concerns, the revamped offensive coaching staff led by new coordinator Dave Canales appears nearly solidified. During his introductory news conference Wednesday, Canales confirmed the widespread reports that Cowboys running backs coach Skip Peete will join Tampa Bay in the same capacity. He also confirmed that Brad Idzik, with whom he worked the last four years in Seattle, will coach Bucs receivers. “(The Cowboys) had zero fumbles last year from the running back (spot),” Canales said. “OK, so (Peete) could have started that interview with that, drop the mic, and then he would have been hired.” Peete and Idzik join no fewer than a half-dozen holdovers from the 2022 staff that include Thad Lewis, who is being promoted from assistant receivers coach to quarterbacks coach. At least initially, his most essential colleague could be Idzik, whose dad, John, served on the Bucs staff in various capacities for more than a decade. Idzik spent last season as Seahawks assistant receivers coach — the same position he held in 2019 and 2020 — after a year as assistant quarterbacks coach. Prior to that, he spent five seasons (2014-18) as an offensive graduate assistant at Stanford. He’ll likely be Canales’ eyes in the skybox on game days. “There’s two reasons really why I had to have Brad: No. 1, you look outside after any practice, he’s out there with somebody working, or two or three guys,” Canales said. “He was always that safety net, just kind of catching guys. If you had 12 guys in a receiver room, he’s working with the bottom half. If we brought a free agent in who needed help transitioning into a new system, Brad’s right there early, afterwards, ‘Here’s the plan, here’s how we package these things, here’s how to block this guy right there.’ “And that’s going to be really important with Mike (Evans) and with Chris (Godwin), for him to be the bridge for those guys into this new system.” Canales, 41, indicated his top priority — even before evaluating draft candidates and the free-agent market — is establishing a playbook (which he described as simple in concept but complex in delivery) and a common terminology. More than once Wednesday, he used the phrase “no synonyms” in stressing a common offensive jargon. “Let’s use the same language,” he said. “Let’s teach the coaches the language. Let’s teach the players the language, and let’s all use the same words.” 2023 Bucs offensive staff Dave Canales, coordinator Thad Lewis, quarterbacks Skip Peete, running backs Brad Idzik, receivers John Van Dam, tight ends Joe Gilbert, offensive line Harold Goodwin, run-game coordinator Jeff Kastl, quality control Tom Moore, offensive consultant Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.