DUNEDIN — The planned redevelopment of the Tropicana Field site by the Rays-led group chosen by St. Petersburg Mayor Ken Welch seems to present the clearest path to end the team’s years-long pursuit of a new stadium. Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred even recently called Welch to encourage him about the project. But, Manfred told the Tampa Bay Times Thursday, he doesn’t necessarily consider the downtown St. Petersburg site the only option to keep the team in the Tampa Bay market. “I really don’t,” he said. “I think that there are other possible locations that can be explored. And I remain committed to the Tampa Bay region as a solution for us.” As excited as the Rays were when Welch chose their group (which includes the global Hines development firm), team officials said at the time they would continue talks with Tampa officials as well about the potential for a stadium there until a deal in St. Petersburg is finalized. The Rays previously have expressed a preference to build on the Tampa side of the bay — as has Manfred at times — but have acknowledged location isn’t the only factor in the decision. There have been questions about the logic of building a new stadium adjacent to the site where the team has struggled for most of its 25 seasons to draw fans. But at least as of now, the Tropicana Field site, also known as the Historic Gas Plant District, is the only known active option. And it may well be the only one. Manfred did not say Thursday what the “other possible locations” were or indicate that anything was in the works. “I think the decision by the city is a significant step forward in terms of identifying a location where a stadium could be built,” Manfred told the Times before a media session at the Blue Jays’ training complex. “There’s a lot that still needs to be done.” Primary is funding the projected $1.2 billion stadium cost, with the plan expected to include contributions from the team, the city and Pinellas County. “Public funding is a big piece of it,” Manfred said. “It’s the largest single hurdle.” Discussions are expected to start soon between the team and city on how to negotiate the terms. The Rays are pushing for a quick timetable, as their current lease expires after the 2027 season. Welch said after the Jan. 30 announcement that he wanted to first negotiate an agreement for the stadium, then the rest of the 86-acre project that will include housing, hotels and entertainment venues — similar to the successful Battery area in Atlanta the Braves have around their stadium. Rays officials said they want to work out the agreements all at once before committing to the stadium, as the surrounding elements will be an essential factor in the overall project. “I think Atlanta proved that a Battery-type development can be a tremendous engine for growth in a particular area, and it can be really good for a ballclub,” Manfred said. “It’s dramatically more complicated than building just a stadium.” While the A’s have been given permission to explore a move from Oakland to Las Vegas, Manfred reiterated that MLB considers Tampa Bay to be a viable site. “I think that we see the potential in the Tampa market dramatically different than we see Oakland,” he said. In seeking a large share of the funding from Pinellas County, the Rays are in an odd position of essentially competing against other major league teams. The Phillies are seeking a share of the hotel bed tax revenues to renovate and expand their spring facilities in Clearwater, as the Blue Jays recently did to upgrade their stadium and complex in Dunedin. Manfred didn’t necessarily see a conflict. “What I would say about that is (with) public financing, the state’s one option, the county’s another option, the city’s a third option,” Manfred said. “Whether that competition (with other teams) is direct or not just depends on the decisions that are made with respect to requests.” The Rays wouldn’t seem likely to get state help for the project, as Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis last year vetoed funding for a potential new spring training site in Pasco County, saying, “I don’t support giving taxpayer dollars to professional sports stadiums, period.” Also: • Manfred told the Times his office has spoken with DeSantis, and the elementary school-level books about baseball stars Hank Aaron and Roberto Clemente that were pulled from Duval County schools as part of state-led review process have been approved and are being restored. • Manfred said at his media session that MLB is ready to step in if the parent company of the Bally Sports regional networks declares bankruptcy — not only to produce and disseminate games, but also financially. “You know, we have a pretty good balance sheet in central baseball,” he said. “I think it’s safe to assume that we will provide every support that we possibly can to those clubs that are at risk.” • Manfred said that there is no timetable for the Automatic Balls and Strikes system, commonly referred to as robo-umps, to be implemented at the major-league level.  Times staff writer Kristie Ackert contributed to this report. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.