The big story: Gov. Ron DeSantis toned down his criticism of the College Board’s Advanced Placement courses during a news conference Monday in Orlando. His recent suggestion that Florida high school students could look elsewhere for accelerated courses has fallen short with many of the state’s teens and their parents, who have long relied on AP to generate college credits and help them gain admission into universities. This time out, DeSantis spoke more about creating an “open market.” “What I’ve just noticed is that Florida has subsidized this one company, College Board, when there are other companies that I think want to compete. And so I think what we’re looking to do is have more of an open market to where schools can pick the best way for college credit,” DeSantis said. More from Florida Politics. Hot topics Higher education governance: Three national organizations criticized a Florida House proposal to crack down on university curriculum and make governance changes as having the potential to “destroy higher education has we know it.” • The New College Board of Trustees is slated to abolish diversity, equity and inclusion programs when it meets next week, the News Service of Florida reports. High school graduation rates: The graduation rates in Lee and Collier counties decreased in 2022, the Naples Daily News reports. School board elections: Most of the board members Gov. Ron DeSantis has targeted for defeat in 2024 supported mask mandates during the pandemic. But not all of them, Florida Politics reports. • The Indian River County NAACP chapter called on residents to support School Board members and the system that are “under attack” by the governor, TC Palm reports. School choice: Florida families and school leaders are debating the pros and cons of a proposal to expand the state’s voucher program, WPTV reports. They’d like to see a balance that allows more choice without harming any education system. Teachers’ ‘bill of rights’: A state senator has filed legislation to enact what Gov. Ron DeSantis has called a teachers’ bill of rights, WFLA reports. SB 244 would create new rules for how teachers are certified, investigated and disciplined. Following Florida? Idaho state senators rejected a universal education savings account proposal similar to one in front of Florida lawmakers. Several Republicans said they support the concept generally, but could not back the legislation because of funding concerns, Idaho Ed News reports. • An Indiana House proposal to make school board elections partisan did not make it to a floor vote, lacking adequate Republican support, Indiana Capital Chronicle reports. Florida has a similar measure up for consideration. Other school news A Duval County high school launched a new high-tech lab to teach cybersecurity and game design. A local technology staffing company paid for the set-up in the aging school serving a low-income community, the Florida Times-Union reports. The St. Johns County school district is changing some start times. The district announced it would create a new bell schedule for some of it K-8 schools. WJXT reports. The Flagler County school district is working on a new Narcan policy. It would require school nurses to be trained in administering the opioid-reversal drug, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. Recognizing Black history ... The Hillsborough County school district placed a memorial on the King High School campus to mark the site of a former Black cemetery. • The Manatee County school district has seven schools honoring Black educators and civic leaders, the Bradenton Herald reports. • A Miami-Dade County pastor recalls being among the first Black children to desegregate a Miami elementary school, WFOR reports. From the police report ... A Flagler County teen accused of attacking a school aide who took away the student’s Nintendo Switch will be charged as an adult, WKMG reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... On Monday you saw the SNL parody version. Here’s the trailer for the real Super Mario Bros. movie coming out in April. Which would you rather see? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.