A few things to know about Dave Canales, who replaces Byron Leftwich as Bucs offensive coordinator: • Born in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Harbor City, he was a three-sport athlete (football, baseball, track) and honor student at Carson High, and later began his coaching career as his alma mater’s freshman/sophomore coach in 2004. • He played four seasons at Azusa Pacific, then an NAIA program in Azusa, California. A receiver and two-time captain, Canales totaled 27 catches for 293 yards and a touchdown, graduating in 2003 with a degree in business administration. • A 41-year-old dad of four, Canales met his wife, Lizzy, at an on-campus Bible study at Azusa Pacific. • He landed his first big coaching break while special teams/tight ends coach at El Camino College, a two-year program in Alondra Park, California. During his three years at El Camino, he worked summer football camps at USC, befriending then-Trojans offensive coordinator Steve Sarkisian. In 2009, then-USC coach Pete Carroll hired him as an assistant strength coach and video assistant. • In 2010, Canales followed Carroll to Seattle, where he has served in five different roles (offensive quality control, assistant quarterbacks coach, receivers coach, quarterbacks coach, offensive pass-game coordinator) over the last 13 seasons. He was assistant quarterbacks coach when the Seahawks won Super Bowl 48 in 2014. As pass-game coordinator in 2020, Canales watched Russell Wilson set single-season franchise records in touchdown passes (40), completions (384) and completion percentage (68.8); while Tyler Lockett and DK Metcalf both posted 1,000-yard receiving seasons. As quarterbacks coach this past season, he oversaw the resurgence of veteran Geno Smith, who led the NFL in completion percentage (69.8) and had the fifth-best passer rating (100.9). Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.