Ronde Barber will be fitted for a gold jacket, leaving a fan base no longer fit to be tied. One of the most durable Buccaneers ever, Barber — a secondary cornerstone of the Tampa 2 defense — finally has been elected for entry into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in his sixth year of eligibility. Until Thursday evening, his omission remained the area’s greatest sports grievance. Now, overdue has been supplanted by overjoyed. When the celebration subsides, conversation will pivot to the next point of debate: Who’s the next Buc bound for Canton? We’ve put together our preliminary list, with one qualifier: Those considered must have spent a majority of their careers in Tampa, or made significant contributions to a Super Bowl title. This excludes sure-fire Hall of Famers who made only a cameo in pewter, such as Richard Sherman (2021) or Julio Jones (2022). Face it: Tampa Bay will be only a footnote on their respective plaques. As for those whose local tenures and contributions are (or were) more substantial, here’s our list, in alphabetical order: Bruce Arians Years in Tampa: 2019-present Despite his cache as a quarterback whisperer and his masterful head-coaching stints with the Colts (as an interim) and Cardinals, Arians probably wasn’t a Hall of Famer before arriving in Tampa. But he might — might — have nudged himself into immortality by leading the 2020 Bucs to a world title amid a pandemic. Counting his interim season in Indianapolis, when the Colts went 9-3 on Arians’ watch (earning him NFL Coach of the Year honors), he finished 89-51-1 as an NFL head coach. That .631 win percentage is 16th among those who have coached at least 100 games. Tom Brady Years in Tampa: 2020-2022 Canton is not Cooperstown, where players are immortalized with the hat of the club for which they’re most closely associated. Beneath Brady’s handsome, homogenous bust will be the teams for which he played, and the years he played with them. Moreover, his bio will include his seventh and final Super Bowl title, won with Tampa Bay. One of only two starting quarterbacks (Peyton Manning is the other) to win a Super Bowl with two different teams, he’s a lock for the Bucs’ Ring of Honor. All of which is to say, Tampa is a significant part of Brady’s improbable story, and Bucs fans certainly can boast him as one of their Hall of Famers. Mike Evans Years in Tampa: 2014-present If this guy’s not a Hall of Famer now, he’s right on the cusp. The franchise’s career leader in catches (683), yards (10,425) and touchdown receptions (81), Evans is the only NFL player to collect at least 1,000 receiving yards in each of his first nine seasons. If he can get 2,800 more receiving yards and nine more TD catches down the stretch of his career, he’ll crack the all-time top 20 in both categories. Rob Gronkowski Years in Tampa: 2020-2021 See the Brady capsule above. Gronk’s entire Hall of Fame story can’t be told without including his two seasons in Tampa, and the 2020 offense likely never finds its stride without his in-line blocking chops and daunting presence in the pass game. He had six catches for 67 yards and two touchdowns in Super Bowl 55. Part of him always will belong to the Bucs. Jason Pierre-Paul Years in Tampa: 2018-2021 Probably the hardest sell on this list. Though a three-time Pro Bowler and two-time Super Bowl champ, JPP’s career numbers (94-1/2 sacks, 21 forced fumbles) fall short of conventional Hall of Fame standards. But in the 2011 and 2020 regular seasons, he totaled 26 sacks, 14 passes defended and six forced fumbles. His teams won the Super Bowl both of those seasons. Simeon Rice Years in Tampa: 2001-2006 Barber’s election leaves Rice as the franchise’s most glaring Hall of Fame omission. A three-time Pro Bowler with the Bucs and first-team All-Pro in the 2002 Super Bowl season (when he recorded 15-1/2 sacks), Rice remains 21st on the NFL’s career sacks list (122). In five of his six seasons in Tampa, he recorded at least 11 sacks. In three of those seasons, he forced at least four fumbles. If Rice can’t get in the Hall, can someone at least find a spot for him in the Ring of Honor? Ndamukong Suh Years in Tampa: 2019-2021 Suh already had earned his three first-team All-Pro selections and five Pro Bowl nods before arriving in Tampa, but he won his only Super Bowl — to date — with the Bucs. Arguably the most durable defensive tackle of his time (missing only two games his first 12 seasons), Suh had a career resurgence in 2020, when the Bucs won it all. His six sacks were his most in a half-decade, and his 19 quarterback hits were by far the most of his three-season tenure in pewter. Additionally, Patrick Mahomes still may have nightmares of Suh chasing him in Super Bowl 55, when he officially tallied 1-1/2 sacks. Contact Joey Knight at jknight@tampabay.com. Follow @TBTimes_Bulls • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.