Expand Medicaid, too President Biden, welcome to Florida. Now a little help, please | Editorial, Feb. 9 While the Tampa Bay Times Editorial Board has suggested some good ideas for President Joe Biden to support during his visit (putting manatees back on the endangered species list, cleaning up Florida’s springs and waterways and creating a national home insurance fund to help lower premium costs), there is at least one other that also requires the president’s attention, if not more so: urging Florida to join the majority of states that have extended Medicaid coverage to more low-income residents. This would greatly benefit more than 800,000 Floridians who cannot afford health insurance under the state’s highly restrictive eligibility rules. It is, of course, highly unlikely that Gov. Ron DeSantis or his Republican-dominated Legislature would heed an appeal of this sort by the president. But it certainly would contrast Biden’s concern for the welfare of ordinary Americans with the governor’s consistent support for his donors’ business interests. Fred Kalhammer, Sun City Center Slow but unsure Sunrunner after 100 days | Feb. 8 This area of Florida has a dearth of public transportation. I lived outside of Chicago for years and I could get anywhere in the city and much of the suburbs, within a block or so of where I was going, using public transportation and get there almost as fast as driving. I looked up an address in Tarpon Springs and then checked the travel time. It told me two hours! I had clicked the wrong button for driving time. It gave me the bus time. My actual drive was 20 minutes. Public transportation seems to be a dead issue here. Why do so many people seem to be against it — especially those in positions where they can actually make some improvements? Dave Hinz, Clearwater A well-regulated militia For some, permitless carry is not enough | Feb. 9 I wonder if state Rep. Chuck Brannan, a sponsor of the bill to allow permitless carry of concealed weapons, has ever read the entire Second Amendment. The first words are “a well regulated militia”: well regulated. That would include some kind of training, wouldn’t it? The military does not just give you a rifle and say, “go get them.” Right? Carlos J. DeCisneros, Tampa What would Jesus do? Abortion protests at Clearwater clinic like a ‘tinderbox ready to explode,’ workers say | Feb. 9 It seems to me that those who are verbally abusive of other human beings cannot be considered good Christians. Dave O’Brien, Belleair Bluffs