LAKE BUENA VISTA — Christian Bethancourt never stopped thinking of himself as a catcher. His baseball journey moved him through a lot of different roles. He was a top catching prospect breaking into the big leagues, then a minor league journeyman. He went from catcher to pitcher to infielder and outfielder. But the Rays’ backstop always was a catcher at heart. “Yeah, I can play first base, I can play in the outfield, and I can pitch, but, um, but those are not things that I’m fully committed to like I was as a catcher,” Bethancourt said Friday at the Rays’ spring camp at Disney’s ESPN Wide World of Sports complex. Now, at 31 years old and almost a decade after breaking into the majors as the Braves’ top catching prospect, Bethancourt finally is projected to be a starter behind the plate in the big leagues. The Rays expect him to share the position with Francisco Mejia. “We could not have been more impressed or happier with the way Bethancourt progressed throughout the year,” Rays manager Kevin Cash said. “We acquired him, being totally transparent, as more of a bat and less of a defender. He worked his butt off to become a really good defender. Credit to him and certainly (former Rays catching coach) Paul Hoover, who is (bench coach) with the Royals now, and they worked hard. “We felt like between him, Frankie (Mejia) and also Rene Pinto, we’ve got three really good defensive options back there.” Perhaps most importantly, Rays pitchers have confidence in the trio, too. “They do so many quality things for us from a catching standpoint,” starting pitcher Drew Rasmussen said. “They’re really great game callers, really great pitch framers. And on top of it, they’ve both got absolute hoses for arms, so there’s not really a ton of fear in the running game as a pitcher. “And If I can limit the amount of stuff I feel like I absolutely have to control on my own, it really makes things a lot easier. And so that relationship with them is great.” Mejia and Bethancourt are very familiar with each other and comfortable sharing the workload. They have played winter ball together in the Dominican Republic for the last few years. “He’s great to work with,” Mejia said. “He’s always helped me.” While Mejia carried the bulk of the catching load early last season, Bethancourt, acquired from the A’s in July, worked with Hoover on sharpening his pitch framing and receiving. He worked with pitching coach Kyle Snyder to get familiar with the staff. As the Rays saw Bethancourt progress, the Panamanian earned more playing time. He played in 35 games at catcher with Tampa Bay during the season, then started both games of the American League Wild Card Series against the Guardians. “When we got him, I’m confident we were not thinking about playing him five days a week behind the plate. And then he got to that point where he was,” Cash said. “... We knew we could throw, but the attention to detail calling games, working with pitchers spiked, the pitch framing, receiving, that spiked. To me, he was getting really good numbers day in and day out.” It was a roundabout journey to becoming the Rays’ starting catcher in the playoffs. “I wish things would have gone differently, but you know, I’m a big believer that everything happens for a reason. Maybe Atlanta wasn’t going to be my place,” Bethancourt said. “The route I took to baseball eventually brought me to the Rays, and now I feel comfortable here. I finally feel like this is a place where I can be myself and be the guy behind the plate that I always wanted to be.” • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.