TAMPA — The Lightning will come out of the All-Star break in a strong position. To this point, they’ve played well enough to take a stranglehold on the third playoff position in the Atlantic Division while rounding out some early season flaws in their game. But their blueprint to success lies in steady improvement throughout the regular season so they are at their best when it matters the most, the start of the postseason. That’s what this team has done the past three seasons in advancing to the Stanley Cup final, hoisting the trophy twice. So far this season, they have mostly followed suit. They’ve overcome some growing pains from personnel losses and learned from their mistakes, never losing more than two straight games. Still, the Lightning head into their final 34, starting with a matchup aganist the Panthers Monday in Sunrise, realizing they still have more to show. “I would say we can play a lot better,” forward Nikita Kucherov said before the break. “And we still have a lot of areas we have to improve, and I expect us to be even better in the second half.” Here are five burning questions coming out of the break and heading into the stretch run. What’s the biggest question coming out of the break? Can the Lightning pick up where they left off before the break, when they showed for the first time this season that they can consistently beat — and even shut down — playoff-caliber teams? In the eight games before the break, the Lightning played seven teams that either sit in playoff positions or are in the hunt and went 5-2-0. In each of their five wins over that span, they held their opponent to two goals or fewer and got scoring contributions from all four lines.. Of their next 11 games, seven are on the road, including a daunting four-game trip out West that includes contests in Dallas, Colorado, Arizona and Vegas. Can we expect Lightning to upgrade at the deadline? The trade deadline (March 3) is still almost a month away, so there’s a lot that can happen in terms of which teams become buyers or sellers and which players become available. With few trade chips (the Lightning don’t have a first- or second-round pick this year or a first-rounder next year) and very little cap space (the $719,967 in available cap room is less than the $750,000 league minimum salary), it will be difficult to work a trade. But Lightning GM Julien BriseBois has been brilliant at overcoming those obstacles in past seasons. Because any deal will have to be money-in, money-out, it likely will mirror last season’s trade for forward Nick Paul, who had a low $1.35 million cap hit, in exchange for forward Mathieu Joseph and a fourth-round pick. There might not be a Paul out there this trade season, but potential targets include Canucks (and former Lightning) defenseman Luke Schenn or Senators forward Tyler Motte, both of whom have low cap hits, are pending restricted free agents and could be acquired at a nominal cost. Does it matter where Lightning finish in the division? Typically, the Lightning don’t care where they sit in postseason seeding, because they’re confident that as long as they play their game they can win anywhere. They’re a battle-tested team. But given how much success they have had at Amalie Arena this season — their .820 home point percentage trails only the Bruins — they have reason to try to get as many home games as possible, especially in a potential first-round series against the Maple Leafs. Though they’ve played better on the road recently, defensively the Lightning are a different team at home (2.56 goals allowed per game) than they are on the road (3.30). Tampa Bay currently sits five games back of second-place Toronto in the Atlantic Division, about where it has been since Thanksgiving. This year’s Leafs team is better defensively, allowing .38 fewer goals per game (2.69) than a season ago (3.07), so the Lightning should expect a tougher test. Which player can be the biggest X-factor in the second half? The Lightning have started to get bigger offensive contributions from their bottom-six forwards, and that will be important throughout the rest of the regular season and into the playoffs. To go deep, you need scoring help from all four lines. But the play of third-liner Ross Colton is something to watch moving forward. He’s settling in alongside Paul and Pat Maroon, and they’ve played a heavy game while possessing the puck. Colton isn’t on pace to duplicate his 22-goal, 39-point numbers from last season, but he’s a key piece of the second power-play unit and has become a more physical player, which is valuable in a bottom-six role. Colton leads all Lightning forwards in hits, and we know he has a knack for scoring big goals at key times. Here’s the rub: He’s a restricted free agent next year, just like Joseph when the Lightning decided they wouldn’t be able to keep him and made the trade for Paul. Not that the Lightning necessarily will move Colton, but he might be their most attractive trade piece. Can this Lightning team win another Stanley Cup? Yes, because experience still matters. Even though there’s been nearly a 50-percent turnover of the Cup-winning roster from two seasons ago, the Lightning know how to win in the most pressure-packed moments. That’s the advantage they have over the rest of the teams in the East. A return to the Cup final likely will have to go through Toronto and/or Boston. While both have become better defensively, which will make them tougher outs, Tampa Bay has shown that this year’s group can beat those teams. But it all comes down to who is playing their best when the postseason gets underway, and the Lightning know how to flip the switch when necessary. Until someone knocks them off, they will continue to be a threat. • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.