The traditional national signing day has arrived, and — at the risk of jinxing everything — don’t expect a crazy day in Florida. That’s because almost every major recruit signed during December’s early period. There will, of course, be some exceptions. Here are a few things to monitor: The nation’s top uncommitted recruit is Cormani McClain, a five-star cornerback from Lakeland High. McClain was expected to commit to Florida but instead chose Miami in the fall before opting not to sign with the Hurricanes after all. He has since committed to Deion Sanders at Colorado. We’ll see if that becomes official today. USF has a chance to “make some noise of its own,” as 247Sports wrote Tuesday. The Bulls recently picked up a commitment from Gerard Edimo, a tight end from Texas, and earned a recent visit from three-star quarterback Israel Carter, an Arizona State commit. According to 247Sports, the Bulls also hosted three-star athletes Desirrio Riles and JeyQuan Smith in January, giving Alex Golesh a chance to snag a few promising prospects early in his tenure. The Bulls’ class was No. 93 nationally in the 247Sports composite rankings as of Tuesday afternoon. Florida and Florida State are both expected to be quiet. The Seminoles’ lone unsigned commit is three-star Texas linebacker Dylan Brown-Turner. The Gators have one, too, in four-star Louisiana offensive lineman Caden Jones. Both programs have spent the last few weeks working hard on 2024 recruits. One of the other top prospects on the board is blue-chip quarterback Jaden Rashada, the former Florida signee at the center of a multimillion-dollar name, image and likeness dispute. Arizona State, Washington, TCU and Cal are the programs most frequently linked to Rashada, and it’s possible — if not likely — he isn’t yet ready to sign with any of them. We’ll update this post throughout the day as warranted, so check back for more. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.