Two mistakes in one Pinellas school district faces pushback over its ban of ‘The Bluest Eye’ | Feb. 2 To err is human. We all make mistakes. Hopefully we learn from them and don’t repeat them, as mistakes are educational opportunities. Educators must be role models for this principle; capable administrators in any profession are. But to double down and defend an awful decision that resulted from violating established procedures? I believe that’s what the chief academic officer for Pinellas County Schools did after the district removed Toni Morrison’s “The Bluest Eye” from libraries and classrooms. There are procedures in place to protect the integrity of school policies, and this decision diminishes the education of thousands of school children. Is this the example we want to set for Pinellas teachers and students? Is that the behavior taxpayers would knowingly fund? I think not. I think the officer’s failure to acknowledge the mistake and instead to defend it should result in his resignation. George D. Meyers, St. Pete Beach None of their business Florida high school athletes may have to submit menstrual histories | Feb. 3 Is the menstruation of students the business of the state? Carlos J Diaz Jr., Temple Terrace A Mickey Mouse call DeSantis calls special session | Feb. 3 Gov. Ron DeSantis is calling a special session of the Legislature to discuss removing the special tax district status from Disney because they do not agree with him. How does this benefit the citizens of Florida? What citizens care other than DeSantis? I think it is strictly vindictive. I see no benefit to the people who now will have to fund police, fire, water and sewer for the area as well as take on a $1 billion bond. There are many other issues of much greater significance to the people of Florida that should be the focus of a special session. Spending time and resources to get retribution from Disney is a complete waste of resources. Is DeSantis ever going to focus on the issues that affect many Floridians? Dave Hinz, Clearwater What goes up Trump finds an opening against DeSantis | Column, Feb. 1 Gov. Ron DeSantis, yet to be tested on a national stage, must steel himself for the inevitable full-throated attacks from former President Donald Trump. Known for his hypersensitivity to criticism and insults, DeSantis may find his ascendancy to be short-lived. Jim Paladino, Tampa