The big story: When efforts to allow university athletes to benefit from the marketing of their name, image and likeness was in its infancy, Florida lawmakers stepped out front with legislation to govern the fledgling initiative. The rules they crafted soon became overly restrictive compared to other states that Florida universities vie with when recruiting and competing on the field. Their law, it appeared, put the schools and players at a disadvantage when it comes to making such deals. Now state lawmakers are attempting to undo their earlier work, so it’s easier for schools and student-athletes to find participate in the world of ads, sponsorships and jersey sales. Read more here. Today in Tallahassee ... The House Postsecondary Education and Workforce subcommittee meets at 9 a.m., to hear a report on state and local workforce partnerships. • The House Choice and Innovation subcommittee meets at 11:30 a.m., to receive presentations on school start times. Hot topics Top teacher: Azalea Middle School math teacher Adam Zele was announced as Pinellas County’s 2023 Teacher of the Year. Book challenges: Some central Florida school districts have lists of books banned from their shelves, WKMG reports. Others said they haven’t received any challenges. • While some north Florida districts have told teachers to remove access to classroom libraries, many more have not, Jacksonville Today reports. • A look at the reviews that led to the removal of certain books from Duval County schools raises questions over whether the state’s “common sense” criteria holds, Popular Information reports. Superintendents: Outgoing Broward County superintendent Vickie Cartwright raised allegations of a School Board member inappropriately touching a district employee during negotiations for her severance package. Some board members accused her of trying to strong-arm the board for more money, the Sun-Sentinel reports. Security: A Manatee County high school will install metal detectors after receiving five bomb threats, WWSB reports.. The Manatee sheriff is working with the FBI to track down the source of the threats against Parrish Community High School, the Bradenton Herald reports. • Pasco County school crossing guard David Peterson was named Florida 2022 Crossing Guard of the Year, Suncoast News reports. In higher education Broward College launched a new program to help some first-time offenders. They’d be able to take college courses instead of going to trial, WLRN reports. Why quit the U.S. Senate? New University of Florida president Ben Sasse explained to a Volusia crowd of movers and shakers, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. St. Thomas University in Miami renamed its law school, and Will Smith showed up. It was to honor Benjamin Crump, who became the first practicing Black attorney to have a law school in the nation named after him, the Miami Herald reports. From the police blotter ... A Pasco County middle school student was arrested on accusations of making false threats of violence against Rushe Middle School. • An Escambia County private school went into lockdown over a “swatting” call, the Pensacola News-Journal reports • A Miami-Dade County middle school teacher was arrested on allegations of lewd and lascivious battery against a minor student, the Miami Herald reports. • Four teens were arrested on allegations of vandalizing a Volusia County elementary school, the Daytona Beach News-Journal reports. Don’t miss a story. Here’s a link to yesterday’s roundup. Before you go ... Iconic new wave ‘80s band Duran Duran is touring North America this year, with stops in Tampa and Sunrise. Equally exciting is special guest Nile Rodgers, the Grammy lifetime achievement winner and Rock Hall of Fame member. Everybody dance! • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.