 Since my beat at this paper includes the retirement scene, I’d like to offer Tom Brady a warm welcome to my ranks. I know how it feels to be gently nudged off the active roster — in Tom’s case, he was more like sacked there at the end, wasn’t he? — so I’d also like to offer some advice. I speak here on behalf of the geezer team. As the commercial says, we’ve seen a thing or two. A lot of the reaction has been head-shakingly sympathetic: Tsk, tsk, how rough it must be for Tom to hang up those cleats! “What Will Tom Do Now?” read the sports headlines. My sympathies, Tom. When I moved on from my editorial publishing duties as I hit 65 I, too, wondered what I might do next. Journalists, as everyone knows, pursue their careers because it’s such a lucrative business. As I segued from full-time editing to essay writing, I could look forward to even greater prosperity. Because of the miracle of compound interest, I knew our savings plus Social Security could carry us — as long as rent increases in Tampa Bay remained modest. (How’s that working out?) More important, I’d found a way to keep my brain active. But I worried about Tom. When you’ve been the greatest quarterback of all time, the retirement benefits are probably pretty good. But are they enough? Did Tom have his “number”? I knew that when he and Gisele split up, they put their house on Davis Island up for sale for $12 million. But now they’ve got to pay for two homes, not just one. And sure, in Florida, you can sell your place for a lot of money, but you still have to find another house, and that’s going to cost you. So it was a relief to read that Tom Brady could supplement his income with a new gig as a commentator at Fox Sports. His stipend, a reported $375 million contract, should carry him the rest of the way, too. Whew! If he puts in a cameo commentary on Fox during the Super Bowl, I’m going to give a lusty cheer. Just what we needed, one more retiree offering wisdom and telling war stories. But … because I naturally worry … I wonder. What about health insurance for Tom? At 45, he’s too young for Medicare. In fact, he’s nearly 20 years away from signing up! I could suggest Medicaid, especially if he has to nurse a sore shoulder. But Florida is one of those thrifty states that passed up the nearly free federal Medicaid expansion because … well, to encourage self-reliance. So while Tom looks to compound interest to make his savings grow as he waits for 65, I’d like to say a few words about Medicare. I know, it’s popular, but you don’t often hear direct testimonials anymore. We take it so much for granted. Here’s my blurb: Medicare works better than anything else in my life. And at 78, mine is a life now so riddled with medical appointments, when I’m out for a drive, my car just naturally veers off toward the medical stables of Swann Avenue, like a mare trotting back home. I’ve written before about us older folk and our organ recitals that open most conversations, one-downing each other. But this is an “up” recital. Medicare works. I breeze in and out of my medical appointments, no paperwork after the first visit, rarely whipping out my credit card. Long ago, we signed up for supplemental insurance, so co-pays are rare. (Of course, my wife and I had to pledge our first-born to AARP/UHC.) But once you get past the original trauma of signing up and choosing plans, almost nothing about the Medicare bureaucracy has broken down. (I’m speaking for myself; I know mileage can vary.) Hospital stays, surgical procedures, office visits, telehealth appointments — zip, zip, no problem, sir. It’s far, far less hassle to check out from a visit to my hematologist than it is to find the cancel page on Netflix. Drugs are a different subject. Those pharma fellows are clever, and often save lives, coming up with new vaxxes and pills. But there’s a reason the CEOs of those companies are among the best-paid on the planet. My sister and I, both paying extra for Medicare Part D, Zoom each other on a weekly basis about uncovered cancer drug costs, and hope the grandchildren aren’t listening. Paying for meds is nightmarish, with charmingly named gaps like the “donut hole” — really, a black hole — where you pay out of pocket above a certain amount, followed by “catastrophic” coverage, which kicks in just before you’re ready to Google how to shop for arsenic. But as to straight Medicare health coverage, my testimonial stands. Well-oiled machinery, screw-ups rare. When I had private insurance, any medical visit could end up snarled in red tape. Sure, I had dental and vision care, which Medicare doesn’t provide, but in the words of Billy Wilder, nobody’s perfect. I get my reading glasses for $3 a pair, by the dozen, made in China. God, I hope President Joe Biden goes easy on them. A few times in my life, I found myself involuntarily between editing jobs. Magazines have folded pretty regularly these past 30 years, and top editors’ jobs can be as insecure as football coaches’. I think back to those pre-Obamacare days, getting panicky when I lost corporate health insurance — ”preexisting conditions” was a fraught and bitter dinner topic. I remember the look on friends’ faces from Canada or England or France: “Dude, really, you can’t pay for coverage at any price?” So, yeah, anyone who wants to rail against socialized medicine — the kind practiced in every civilized capitalist country except one — be my guest. But trust me, you won’t find a lot of complaining among my age group. And I give thanks for the single-payer, government-sponsored coverage that only we seniors get in this country — except for members of Congress and the military, of course. I can’t imagine what life would have been like for me, or almost any older friend, these past health-plagued years. Hey, hey, LBJ, I used to march in the streets against you in the ‘60s for sacrificing young American lives in Vietnam. Now, speaking for many of us, I figure we owe you millions of longer, healthier lives. My guess is that the topic of health and age is going to figure pretty prominently in our political life these next couple of years. Here in Florida, I know, right now it’s nearly nonstop stunts by Gov. Ron DeSantis — persecuting professors, tromping teachers, banning books. (By the way: I’m applying to be a “certified media specialist,” so I can approve banned books, as the Florida laws decree. I have some doozies to bring back.) But I’ve got a strong feeling that among our senior class, there’ll be less interest in our “indoctrinators” than in our doctors. When the stunts get old, the old will get tough. I suspect a less distracted older populace will swivel back to see who’s protecting their Medicare and Social Security. This is where DeSantis has a huge, so-far-unseen vulnerability in a state with 4.5 million seniors out of 21 million. He’s a master distractor — as we know from watching his ugly, theatrical woke-whacking stunts. Meanwhile, over 12% of Florida is uninsured, and only five states have a lower threshold of income to qualify for Medicaid. (If you make over $6,900 as an individual, too bad.) The refusal by DeSantis and his supine Legislature to accept all-but-free Medicaid expansion has no earthly justification except for, “ooh — Obamacare!” But wily old Donald Trump has spotted DeSantis’ vulnerability. He’s already firing shots at him for his early, tea party, firebrand votes when he was a congressman to cut back on senior entitlements. If Trump and DeSantis go head-to-head, it will be canny codger against artful dodger. For all his reactionary bluster, Trump has been consistently pro-Social Security and Medicare. DeSantis can pivot as governor, but he won’t be able to hide his congressional record. If it turns out to be Trump versus Biden, at 78 and 81 on Election Day 2024, it’s going to be Spry vs. Spry. I’ll be leaning forward on my cane to see which guy makes it through the debate without making a run for the bathroom. I know I couldn’t. So as I turn back to Tom Brady’s retirement and his challenges, I naturally think about my own future, and who’ll have my back as I age. I wasn’t the first to welcome Tom into retirement. That was Rob Gronkowski, the great hulking tight end who quit earlier than his teammate, then unretired to join his buddy here in Tampa Bay. Rob playfully welcomed Tom into the “two-time retired club.” That’s what I want as I head into my own end zone — someone who’ll protect me, catch me if I wobble and spike the ball for us all. Gronk for president! Guest columnist Barry Golson covers the Tampa Bay senior scene. His writing has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times, Playboy, Forbes and AARP. He is the author of “Gringos in Paradise” (Scribner). He can be reached at gbarrygolson@gmail.com.