FORT MYERS — Heading into Saturday’s exhibition-opening 8-4 loss to the Twins, Rays manager Kevin Cash was curious to see how the new rules being implemented this season, most notably the pitch timer, would impact play. In watching TV clips and talking with former bench coach Matt Quatraro, who made his managerial debut with the Royals in a Friday exhibition, Cash got the sense that all parties felt the pace was noticeably improved and the game notably shorter. And that was pretty much how things played out Saturday, with 8-1/2 innings completed in 2:31 at a quicker tempo. (Plus, Cash had a vested interest in expediency as he was headed home to take his family to see “Chicago” at the Straz Center in Tampa.) “You liked the pace of the game,” Cash said. “It’s going to take a little while for guys to get used to it, but trust that they will.” Catcher Francisco Mejia said the pitchers seemed to handle the 15-second limits (20 with runners on base) better. “I feel like for the hitters it was a little more difficult to adjust to; the pace of the game is faster,” Mejia said via team communications manager Elvis Martinez. “The game was speeding up on a lot of people. The best way to do it right now is in spring training rather than starting the season now knowing what is going on. So we’ve just got to adjust to the rules.” Rays staff emphasized the changes both leading up to and early in camp, including setting clocks on the field and bringing in umpires for live batting practice. Cash said they handled it well Saturday, though he also joked they’d fine the first violator, pitcher or hitter, $500. The Rays did have an issue with another of the new rules, as they were called for an apparent shift violation in the third inning based on the positioning of second baseman Vidal Brujan. There was some confusion, as the infraction is supposed to be based on the positioning when the pitch is released  but the call was made beforehand and no pitch was thrown. Cash discussed the ruling with umpire Marvin Hudson and said he needed more clarity. “We’ve got to get a little bit more information on it,” Cash said. “I think we’re all learning on the fly a little bit here. It’s one thing in theory to say it on Zoom calls and talk about it, but when it actually comes into the play, it’s good (to discuss). Marvin is one of the best umpires in baseball. We’re gonna go back and forth, and he’ll find out what is correct and what’s not.” Game details: Twins 8, Rays 4 Josh Fleming had a brutal outing, allowing hits to the first six Twins and all to score in the second, though Cash didn’t put much stock in it and noted some plays could have been made behind him. ... Josh Lowe laced a double off Kenta Maeda on the game’s first pitch. ... Cash said one highlight was minor-league reliever Evan Reifert striking out all three batters he faced. Another was Rule 5 reliever Kevin Kelly escaping a bases-loaded mess he made with a strikeout and a grounder for a double play. “I definitely like ground balls,” Kelly said. ... Brujan made a snazzy behind-the-back play to start a double play in the first. Here and there Opening the spring with back-to-back games in Fort Myers while having roughly 45 players working out at Disney created some logistical challenges. Some players and staff members were staying over in Fort Myers, some were returning to Disney with replacements coming in the morning, and a few pitchers’ itineraries were based on whether they got into Saturday’s game. Also, the Rays had some of the big-league staff, including pitching coach Kyle Snyder and hitting coach Chad Mottola, stay at Disney and brought some coaches who have homes in the Fort Myers/Port Charlotte area. New bullpen coach Jorge Moncada handled mound visits, and assistant Brady North ran pregame batting practice. Miscellany The Rays said limited tickets remain for Tuesday’s game at Disney against the Yankees. … Cash had new third-base coach Brady Williams, promoted to the majors for the first time, bring out the lineup card. … The Twins held a pregame moment of silence for victims of Hurricane Ian, which caused extensive damage in the area. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.