The big story: Student privacy won the day in the debate over surveys high schoolers must fill out to participate in athletics. In an emergency meeting, the FHSAA governing board backed away from asking a set of mandatory questions relating to female students’ menstrual cycle. Instead, the board agreed to accept a doctor’s form clearing the teens to play on their teams. Most of the public feedback on the original proposal was negative, the Miami Herald reports. New legislation from Congressional Democrats would prevent schools from receiving federal funding if they collect information about students’ periods, the Palm Beach Post reports. At the same FHSAA meeting, the board approved asking students to list their sex at birth on their participation form, the Palm Beach Post reports. More from NPR. Hot topics AP African American studies: The College Board refuted the Florida Department of Education’s claims that Florida’s complaints led to changes of a new AP African American studies course. More from the Washington Post. • The department clarified that it will allow teaching about reparations, after initially raising the issue as a reason it would not allow the AP course to be used in Florida. Attendance zones: Hillsborough County superintendent Addison Davis offered a new proposal for redrawing school zones after the district’s initial plans received heavy criticism across the district. Diversity and equity: Florida’s 12 universities reported that they spend about 1% of their budgets on the diversity, equity and inclusion courses and programs that Gov. Ron DeSantis and other Republican officials have demanded be excised, WGCU reports. Name-image-likeness: The Florida House unanimously agreed to void state rules on how college and university athletes deal with sponsorships. The measure next heads to the Senate, which convenes today at 1 p.m. New College: State lawmakers could consider allocating $15 million to New College for recruitment of faculty and students as early as next week, the News Service of Florida reports. School security: The state Senate moved to further standardize student threat assessments as part of its effort to improve school safety laws enacted after the Parkland school shooting. The proposal came as part of a bill to allow permitless carrying of guns in Florida. • The Lee County Sheriff’s Office announced it would expand its school threat enforcement team, WINK reports. • The Leon County school district is launching a new app to allow students to submit tips about safety concerns, WTXL reports. Superintendents: Flagler County superintendent Cathy Mittelstadt reminded the School Board that her contract is about to expire. They said nothing about plans to extend it, Flagler Live reports. • The Osceola County School Board is asking for public input as it seeks a replacement for retiring superintendent Debra Pace, WESH reports. Vouchers: The conservative Florida Citizens Alliance is asking state lawmakers to scale back the role of Step Up for Students as the state seeks to expand voucher programs and create education savings accounts. The group called Step Up a monopoly, and said it also is too “woke.” Other school news The University of South Florida wants to have a football stadium on campus. It’s asking for $22 million for the first phase of the project. The Alachua County school district wants to keep its summer camp open and viable. The School Board decided to increase the price, and raise the pay for counselors, Main Street Daily News reports. The Duval County school district has received criticism for removing a children’s book about baseball legend Roberto Clemente from its shelves. Clemente’s son said he agreed with the decision, WTAE reports. From the police blotter ... Two Manatee County high school students were arrested on allegations of posting videos on social media that imitated school shootings at their school, the Bradenton Herald reports. • A Miami-Dade County middle school student and two adults were arrested on accusations of battery against a school resource officer, who was attempting to break up a fight, WTVJ reports. • A Marion County high school teacher was arrested on accusations of sexual misconduct with students, the Ocala Star-Banner reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... It’s Super Bowl weekend. Sure, it’s a big game. But commercials, right? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.