TAMPA — Dan Pitcher was busy preparing for the Bengals’ AFC Championship Game against the Chiefs when he squeezed in some time for a virtual interview with the Bucs about their vacant offensive coordinator job. Cincinnati lost to Kansas City 23-20 on Jan. 29. As the Chiefs prepare this week to play the Eagles Sunday in Super Bowl 57 in Glendale, Arizona, Pitcher is headed to Tampa Bay for a second meeting with the Bucs, according to multiple reports. Pitcher, who became the Bengals’ quarterbacks coach the same year Joe Burrow was drafted No. 1 overall, is credited with helping develop the former LSU quarterback. Pitcher reportedly received a lucrative contract extension last week from the Bengals, who want to retain as many of their assistant coaches as possible. “I think that’s pretty unique to this place,” Burrow said recently. “I think that’s what makes everyone love being here. There’s no egos, from me to our coaching staff, to (head coach) Zac (Taylor), to (offensive coordinator) Brian (Callahan), to ‘Pitch’ (Pitcher), to our receivers. It’s a collaborative effort that everyone puts in so everyone can take ownership.” The Bucs have interviewed at least seven known candidates for their offensive coordinator position, which became available when Byron Leftwich was fired after four seasons. Among those who have met at least once with the Bucs are Georgia offensive coordinator Todd Monken, Giants quarterbacks coach Shea Tierney, Broncos quarterbacks coach Klint Kubiak, Jaguars passing game coordinator Jim Bob Cooter, Vikings receivers coach Keenan McCardell and Saints passing game coordinator Ronald Curry. Monken, who was the Bucs’ offensive coordinator from 2016-18, interviewed for a second time with the Ravens last week. The Bucs have only one quarterback under contract ― former Florida Gators’ star Kyle Trask. Developing a young quarterback will be one of the biggest goals next season following the retirement of Tom Brady. Like a lot of teams, the Bucs have been frustrated at the slow process of hiring an offensive coordinator, but the situation is not unique to them. The NFL now requires teams to interview two minority candidates for coordinator positions. Teams also must interview two external candidates for every coordinator spot. In addition, teams are are not permitted to interview candidates from teams that had a first-round bye until after the Super Bowl. Those coaches could only be interviewed during their bye week, but many teams, such as the Bucs, were still playing. Burrow has thrived under the direction of Pitcher, along with Callahan and Taylor. The 2019 Heisman Trophy winner was the NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year in 2021 after overcoming a torn ACL as a rookie to lead his team to an AFC Championship before losing to the Rams in Super Bowl 56. Burrow has led the Bengals to five postseason wins over the last two seasons, equaling the amount of playoff wins in franchise history before they drafted him. In the past two seasons, Burrow has passed for 9,086 yards with 69 touchdowns and 26 interceptions while going 22-10 as a starter. • • • Sign up for the Bucs RedZone newsletter to get updates and analysis on the latest team and NFL news from Bucs beat writer Joey Knight. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.