TALLAHASSEE — In the face of several lawsuits challenging Gov. Ron DeSantis’ covert operation to relocate migrants from the Texas border to Massachusetts, the governor’s office now wants lawmakers to revise the law to remove potentially unconstitutional provisions, and give the governor more authority to use Florida taxpayer funds to transport migrants around the country. A draft proposal written by the governor’s office and provided to legislators would create a new statute to establish the “Unauthorized Alien Transport Program” that would allow the state to use taxpayer funds “for the purpose of facilitating the transport of inspected unauthorized aliens, within the United States, consistent with federal law.” The proposal will be considered during a special session next week that will also address legislation to reverse their decision to dissolve Walt Disney World’s special taxing district and instead approve a state board to oversee it. Lawmakers will also be asked to fix problems with a state law relating to college athletes who enter into promotional contracts and to adopt legislation clarifying the role of the state in prosecuting election fraud, according to memos from Senate President Kathleen Passidomo and House Speaker Paul Renner. Lawmakers will also address hurricane recovery and two local water control districts. If lawmakers approve the new immigration measure, Florida would be able to transport migrants anywhere in the country if the migrants volunteer to be relocated and show documentation that they have been processed and released by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security after crossing the border illegally. Florida taxpayers would foot the travel costs. The draft proposal, obtained by the Times/Herald, would be a departure from what is currently in place. Instead of specifying that migrants have to be relocated “from this state” — a mandate the state has not followed — DeSantis is proposing the migrants be “within the United States.” In the draft proposal, DeSantis’ office argues the program is necessary because the federal government has “failed to secure the nation’s border and has allowed a surge of unauthorized aliens to enter the United States in violation of the law.” It also argues that the situation at the border has “brought detrimental effects” to the state, including increased costs to Floridians through services that include education and healthcare. The same argument has been made in a federal lawsuit Florida brought against the Biden administration, but the state’s ability to prove harm during a four-day trial last month remains undetermined. Sen. Jason Pizzo, a Democrat, filed a lawsuit accusing Florida’s governor of illegally using taxpayer funds to fly migrants from Texas to Martha’s Vineyard in Massachusetts last September. He said the proposed bill is an effort to render his lawsuit moot and “to expand [the governor’s] authority because now it no longer requires there to be a direct nexus for Florida.” But by replacing the law that required that the money be used to fly migrants out of Florida with a provision that allows the state to relocate migrants anywhere in the country, “it’s a bigger issue,” Pizzo said. “Now he [DeSantis] can spend money on relocation efforts to Idaho if he feels like it.” He said a bill has been drafted for the special session to replace the flawed legislation passed last year. Florida has paid $1.5 million to a politically connected Destin-based company to fly two planes of mostly Venezuelan migrants, including children, to Massachusetts from Texas. Florida tried to send a second flight, but after intense media scrutiny and an investigation by a Texas sheriff, the flight was called off. Records obtained by the Florida Center for Government Accountability, the Miami Herald, and other news organizations have shed light on the covert operation involving the governor’s staff, who worked with the vendor, Vertol Systems Company, to get  around the budget requirement that Florida use the money to export Florida migrants — not those living in some other state. In the wake of the media scrutiny, The DeSantis administration has appeared to have halted its relocation efforts and now has more than $10 million on hand to continue flying migrants. On Wednesday, the governor released his 2023-24 budget proposal and is asking Florida lawmakers to approve another $12 million to move migrants from around the country. The flights have been denounced as a political stunt by the governor’s critics, and at the same time helped DeSantis cement his stature as a conservative stalwart among Republican voters as he eyes a potential run for the presidency in 2024. A trial in Pizzo’s lawsuit was scheduled for Jan. 30 but was postponed because of the judge’s illness. The governor’s office filed a motion for summary judgment to delay the case for another 40 days. Pizzo said that the Biden administration should intervene and tell Florida to stop getting involved in a federal function — immigration and detention — because that activity violates the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution, which holds that federal law takes precedence over conflicting state laws. “I’d make the argument that the federal government has full purview and authority over immigration, not you guys,” he said. By taking 49 migrants who are seeking asylum in Texas to Martha’s Vineyard, the state of Florida made them unavailable for federal immigration proceedings, he argued. “It is tantamount to making them unavailable” and “comparable to witness tampering. You effectively render them unavailable to appear when necessary in a Texas court.” Pizzo argues that the 2022-23 state appropriations law that financed the controversial flights improperly used the budget to create a substantial new program instead of authorizing it through a separate law. Under long-standing principles of the Florida Constitution, substantial policies and programs must be first authorized in a separate law so that they can be widely discussed and reviewed by lawmakers. DeSantis signed the budget on June 8, including the provision that allocated $12 million in interest the state earned from COVID relief funds to pay for “relocation services” run by the Florida Department of Transportation “to facilitate the transport of unauthorized aliens from this state.” When repeatedly asked about whether the flights were conducted legally under state law, legislators have dodged the questions. Last month, the Senate committee charged with overseeing the Florida Department of Transportation budget refrained from asking Florida Department of Transportation Secretary Jared Perdue about the covert flights.