LAKE BUENA VISTA — Taj Bradley didn’t notice until he was down to his last couple pitches in Tuesday’s first live batting practice session that manager Kevin Cash was among the 20-plus Rays officials watching from behind the screen. The Rays’ top starting pitching prospect was well aware when Cash walked to the mound after his 20th and final pitch, patted him on the shoulder and told him he had done well. “He said everything looked good, which is like a huge compliment coming from him,” Bradley said. Cash had plenty to say afterward about the right-hander, who turns 22 next month and last year was 7-4, 2.57 in 28 starts between Double-A Montgomery and Triple-A Durham. “He looked really, really good,” Cash said. “I saw his bullpen (session Saturday), and you try not to read into too much. But then it’s a little different when we have hitters get in there and (see) their reaction to it. “Very good pitch mix when he throws all four pitches (fastball, curve, slider, changeup). He’s got plenty of life to his fastball (clocked at 95 mph). And he has a very clean delivery. Pretty polished for 21 being in Triple-A.” Also throwing to hitters was No. 2 pitching prospect Mason Montgomery, the 2021 draft pick who was 6-3, 2.10 between High Class A Bowling Green and Montgomery (Ala.). “A ton of strikes, and a little bit better velocity than at the tail end of last season,” pitching coach Kyle Snyder said. Both are tentatively scheduled to get starts during the first week of exhibitions, Bradley on Sunday in Fort Myers and Montgomery Monday in Sarasota. Tick, tick, tick Rays officials sent players weekly messages during the offseason about the implementation of a pitch clock, and they held meetings about it at the start of camp. Tuesday, it was time for visual learning. For the live batting practice sessions, digital clocks were placed on the ground in protective boxes, one facing the hitter and one the pitcher so they could see the countdown. Plus, the Rays hired Triple-A umpires, who have experience with the rules, to work behind the plate and monitor potential violations. Pitchers have 15 seconds to throw (20 if runners on base), and hitters can call time only once per plate appearance. “I thought it went really, really well,” Cash said. “Happy that we had the umpires. ... They were very well-informed.” Minor-leaguers like Bradley and Montgomery were used to the timer. Big-league reliever Jalen Beeks was trying to be aware and ended up rushing his pitches. “I was going with like seven seconds left, so I can slow it down a little bit,” he said. “But it wasn’t a big factor.” To make it more real on Wednesday, the Rays will have the on-deck hitters walk up from the dugout area rather than huddling near home plate. Miscellany Holding the first two weeks of camp at Disney World created déjà vu for outfield coordinator (and former Triple-A manager) Jared Sandberg, who played on the Double-A Rays minor-league team that was based at the same facility from 2000-2004. Other familiar names on those teams included Carl Crawford, Josh Hamilton, Toby Hall, Jorge Cantu and Doug Waechter. ... Seventy-nine of the 80 rostered players are in camp. Missing is pitcher Shane Baz, who has been doing the early part of his Tommy John surgery rehab near his Texas home. He will join the team when camp shifts to Tropicana Field on March 1. • • • Sign up for the Rays Report weekly newsletter to get fresh perspectives on the Tampa Bay Rays and the rest of the majors from sports columnist John Romano. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.