Editor’s note: For years, the St. Petersburg Conference on World Affairs has brought together diplomats, journalists and academic experts to discuss key international issues. This year’s edition — Power and Empowerment — is planned as an in-person and live-stream “hybrid” event. It will be held from Feb. 21 through Feb. 24. It is free, but space is limited, and sign-up is required at worldaffairsconference.org. This column was written by a conference participant. When Amalie Oil of Tampa was looking to expand its export sales, the company turned to our U.S. Commercial Service office in Clearwater for assistance. With the help of export counseling and business matchmaking services, the firm was introduced to several potential foreign business partners. The result? New partnerships led to sales in the Middle East, Latin America and West Africa. Amalie Oil is among the many Sunshine State businesses boosting their bottom line and competitiveness by selling internationally. In 2022, Florida exports reached $67.5 billion. Small and medium-sized enterprises — some 39,380 companies — accounted for 95% of Florida goods exporters in 2020. Altogether, the state’s exports support tens of thousands of good-paying jobs, contributing to economic growth and prosperity. With 95% of the world’s consumers and two-thirds of global purchasing power outside of the United States, Florida exporters — including Tampa Bay area businesses — enjoy increased sales and profit potential. Exporting also helps businesses weather changes and smooth business cycles in the domestic and world economies. A great strength of the Tampa Bay area is its diverse business community. The region is home to an impressive cross-section of industries covering information technology, travel and tourism, aerospace, financial services, health care, manufacturing and more. As such, many of these businesses are pursuing new export horizons — taking advantage of opportunities in major Florida export markets such as Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Colombia, the Dominican Republic and destinations well beyond. In another example, Clearwater-based Robotic Parking Systems, with the help of the U.S. Commercial Service and Advocacy support from our Commerce Department colleagues in Washington, D.C., successfully expanded its exports to Kuwait. The firm is building 2,433 automated parking spaces for The New Palace of Justice in Kuwait, which will be the world’s tallest and largest judicial building. Still, for every export story, many businesses — particularly small and medium-sized firms — have yet to export proactively. Often, it’s because they believe exporting is too burdensome, their business too small, or they may be unaware of federal and other export resources to help. Also, most companies that export only sell to one or two markets and thus may be limiting their full export potential. For both new-to-export companies and firms looking to expand their current export sales, consider the following incentives: • Whether large or small, a business that has a good track record of selling in the United States — one of the world’s most open and competitive markets — is also likely a good candidate for selling internationally. • Through eCommerce, businesses can find a more robust channel than ever for expanding international sales through digital strategies and a globalized web presence. • Business enterprises with owners or staff who are familiar with the local language, business culture, and ways of doing business may have a competitive advantage in conducting business in particular foreign markets. Successful exporters have much in common, including a solid export plan. Such a plan covers elements like identifying the product or service to be shipped, conducting market research on best country prospects, developing a pricing strategy and payment terms, and gaining knowledge of shipping and payment terms, among many other elements. Ready to get started? Plenty of help is available through the federal government and our partners, such as Enterprise Florida, the Small Business Development Center (SBDC) and Global Tampa Bay. As you plan your export strategy, make sure to reach out to our U.S. Commercial Service office in Clearwater. As the trade promotion arm of Commerce’s International Trade Administration (ITA), the U.S. Commercial Service has a global network of offices in more than 100 places across the country and in more than 80 international markets. Our assistance helps U.S. businesses navigate the export process through counseling, market intelligence, introduction to global buyers, trade events and more. We can also help you vet international inquiries you may receive through your website and trade shows. We also focus on assisting women-owned and diverse businesses in underserved and rural communities through the Global Diversity Initiative (GDEI), Sandra Campbell is director of the U.S. Commercial Service in Clearwater. She may be reached at Sandra.Campbell@trade.gov.