TAMPA — When Tanner Jeannot was pulled from the Predators lineup before Nashville’s game Sunday in Arizona and told he was being traded, his head started swirling. The news caught him by surprise, as did the uncertainty he faced over the next few hours regarding his destination. “You feel like you’re kind of in space,” Jeannot said. “You just don’t really know what’s going on. You ... (just) try to go with the flow, let people know that need to know — like my family — and just wait to hear.” The 25-year-old found out later that night that he was being traded to the Lightning for defenseman Cal Foote and a package of five draft picks. “When I found out it was Tampa, obviously I was super excited,” Jeannot said after taking the ice with the Lightning for the first time in Tuesday’s morning skate. “And now we’re here and let’s get things going.” In acquiring Jeannot, the Lightning accomplished their trade deadline goal of getting harder to play against. Jeannot is physical; his 213 hits ranked fourth in the NHL entering Tuesday’s games and his 13 fights led the league last year as a rookie. The Lightning will slot him in with Ross Colton and Nick Paul to form a third line they hope will create matchup problems down the stretch and through the playoffs. Tuesday, he already was getting inserted into the penalty-kill rotation. “He makes us a little bit bigger, a little bit stronger, probably gives a little bit more swagger,” coach Jon Cooper said. “I think he makes us a little deeper. He can check, he can PK, he makes everybody feel a little bit taller on the bench. So if you look at what we gave up for him, there’s a reason you have to give sizable packages up because that’s how much these guys mean to their teams.” Despite being in different conferences, the Lightning have seen a lot of Jeannot over the past several years, whether it be in the regular season, frequent preseason games or development camps. Jeannot scored his first NHL goal against the Lightning at Amalie Arena on April 13, 2021. “When you play against him, he’s always a physical presence, he’s not afraid of anything and he’s a real good hockey player, especially last year when he had (24 goals and 41 points),” Lightning defenseman Victor Hedman said. “That says a lot and he doesn’t back down against anyone, so really tough player to play against. So we’re very happy to have him on our side.” Jeannot said he’s also happy to be on the Lightning’s side now, and joked that he’s glad he will no longer be tasked with trying to stop Tampa Bay’s vaunted power play. “I think the biggest thing is that they’re competitors,” Jeannot said. “They know how to win and I hope that I can bring that same mentality and add to it.” While Jeannot’s offensive production has dipped — he has just five goals this season in 56 games after leading all rookies last season — Cooper said he believes it’s an aberration. They like the way Jeannot plays in front of the net, where he creates more of his scoring opportunities as a big body. “I like to contribute when I can,” Jeannot said. “It’s not like the opportunities haven’t been there. I haven’t been getting very many bounces this year, it seems like, but I try not to think about it and I just try to work for the opportunities. And if those are coming, the puck’s gonna go in eventually.” Cooper’s first message to Jeannot was telling him to play the same kind of game he’s been playing. The Lightning don’t need him to fill the net. They need him to be a physical force that can play down low, win puck battles, play responsible in his own end and bring some added snarl to a lineup that will need that in the postseason. “We want him to come in here and be a part of our team and help us win,” Cooper said. “Is he a 24-goal guy here? Who knows? We’d love for that to happen but I definitely don’t think he’s a five-goal guy. But there were so many more things we got when we acquired him aside from having the ability to score goals. We’re ecstatic that we have him.” • • • Sign up for Lightning Strikes, a weekly newsletter from Bolts beat writer Eduardo A. Encina that brings you closer to the ice. Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.