TAMPA — For startup accelerator Tampa Bay Wave, Thursday’s grand opening of its new downtown office marked a turning point, said founder and CEO Linda Olson. It wasn’t just the official launch of a new space designed to help tech entrepreneurs grow their businesses. It was also an opportunity to note the group’s 10-year anniversary. Tampa Bay Wave started as a meetup group a decade ago this month, and has since worked with nearly 500 startups that have garnered $700 million in funding. The new office, Olson said, shows just how far the organization, and Tampa Bay’s startup community as a whole, have come. “The ecosystem has grown to the point where we’re surrounded by office space and coworking space and innovation hubs,” Olson said. “We don’t have to solve that problem for the ecosystem anymore. Now we can be all-in on just helping companies accelerate their growth.” Tampa Bay Wave has been in the new 8,000-square-foot space at the WeWork Building, 501 E Kennedy Blvd., since last fall, but Thursday’s grand opening brought in entrepreneurs, partners and figures like U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, Mayor Jane Castor and former University of South Florida president Judy Genshaft. The sixth-floor office is smaller than Tampa Bay Wave’s previous space, Olson said, and it means the company won’t be leasing space to startups. Some may work upstairs at WeWork, others may find coworking space elsewhere. But it does have a large flex space near the lobby, with views overlooking the southern edge of downtown, that will give Tampa Bay Wave plenty of room for events. “It’s a better fit for the programs we do, and we can increase the programming,” Olson said. “We’re going to be doing two to three times the events in this space, all with the startups — educational events, events with mentors, events with investors. This space fits our programming.” The new office includes a podcast studio that Olson said will encourage entrepreneurs to speak directly to the public and each other about what they do and the challenges of starting a new business. “The intent is to give us the tools and the resources so that we can do a better job telling the storytelling of the startups themselves,” she said. “Facts tell, stories sell.” The grand opening ceremonies also featured a panel on Hispanic entrepreneurship as part of the organization’s LatinTech Accelerator, announced last month. Founded with $500,000 in federal funding, the program is designed to give Hispanic tech founders a boost when it comes to launching their businesses and securing funding. “We continue to hear over and over from companies we work with, from the venture capitalists all over the country, that what we have here is truly a world-class program,” Olson said. “If we can continue to hone that even better and expand the impact of that, we can be part of helping Tampa Bay truly have that world-class innovation reputation that we deserve to have.”