The big story: Gov. Ron DeSantis aims to tip the scales in local school board races again in 2024. This time out, he’s aiming to oust incumbents who he says aren’t adequately pro-parent and anti-woke, regardless of whether they have any announced opposition. The 14-person list includes sitting members of the Pinellas and Hillsborough school boards. They didn’t sound too concerned about being “on the hit list.” “It’s going to be an interesting 20 months,” said Pinellas board member Eileen Long. Read more here. The elections carry implications for how districts operate, as well as their goals. The Collier County school district is seeing that now, as its new-look board revised its vision and mission statements to focus on having strong moral character and becoming productive members of society, WGCU reports. Hot topics Diversity, equity and inclusion: Students at Florida’s state universities are planning an noon walkout to protest Gov. Ron DeSantis’ effort to excise diversity, equity and inclusion programs from their schools. Library books: The Escambia County school district told teachers to remove books from their shelves if they weren’t in the district’s online approved list, the Pensacola News-Journal reports. New College: The Florida Center for Government Accountability has filed a lawsuit against New College and trustee Christopher Russo, alleging they have not complied with records requests for call logs and texts, the Miami Herald reports. The group aims to piece together how a conservative takeover of the school came together. The State University System Board of Governors on Wednesday approved the trustees’ choice of Richard Corcoran to serve as interim president, WUSF reports. School fees: The Alachua County school district has renewed a waiver of all school fees for homeless students and any others who cannot afford the cost, WUFT reports. Security: The Flagler County School Board chairperson wants employees to weigh in before considering a proposal to allow some staff members to carry weapons as school guardians, Flagler Live reports. Vouchers: A Republican senator said SB 202 to expand school vouchers needs more transparency and accountability, Florida Phoenix reports. • Two Central Florida lawmakers who voted to support the House version of the voucher expansion bill could see their private ventures benefit from the outcome, the Orlando Sentinel reports. • The House PreK-12 Education Appropriations subcommittee meets at 9 a.m. to consider HB 1. Tallahassee action: A state lawmaker has filed a bill to increase Florida’s mandatory school attendance age to 18, WFLA reports. • A Florida House member has filed legislation to allow cameras and microphones in self-contained special education classrooms, WKMG reports. From the police blotter ... A Flagler County high school student with special education needs was arrested on accusations of battery against a teacher aide, Flagler Live reports. • The principal of a Brevard County private school for students with special needs was arrested on allegations of using his knee to pin a student to the ground, WKMG reports. • A Pasco County high school student was arrested on accusations of making an online threat against his school, WTSP reports. Don’t miss a story. Yesterday’s roundup is just a click away. Before you go ... Great song. Great show. How do you like this mashup homage to the Beasties’ “Sabotage” video? • • • Sign up for the Gradebook newsletter! Every Thursday, get the latest updates on what’s happening in Tampa Bay area schools from Times education reporter Jeffrey S. Solochek. Click here to sign up.