Update: The Florida Senate has approved a bill that effectively repeals the state’s name, image and likeness law. The 34-0 vote before the full Senate came shortly after noon Friday. That means HB 7B passed every committee and both chambers with zero votes against it. “We’ve done the part to push the NCAA to stop abdicating their responsibility back to the states,” said Sen. Corey Simon, the former Florida State football star. “And we’re now putting it on the universities to educate our kids at what their best practices are going forward.” We’ll update this story soon. In the meantime, our original story from this morning is below. The Florida Senate’s rules committee unanimously voted to recommend a bill that effectively repeals the state’s name, image and likeness (NIL) law. The 18-0 vote to give a favorable recommendation came Friday morning during this week’s legislative special session. The next step for the bill, HB 7B, will be to go before the full Senate, as soon as this afternoon. The House passed it Thursday with a quick 113-0 vote. “Unfortunately with new rules with the NCAA, we are behind the 8-ball in the state of Florida,” said Sen. Travis Hutson (R-Palm Coast). “So this bill will try to get us back on an even playing field from all the hard work (lawmakers) did a couple years ago.” That work came in 2020, when Florida became one of the first states to pass a law allowing college athletes to make money off their name, image and likeness. But it included some restrictions on those opportunities. One of them prohibits teams and coaches from facilitating players’ deals. Some states either never passed name, image and likeness laws or (like Alabama and South Carolina) have repealed or suspended them. That, Hutson and others have argued, puts the state and its athletes at a competitive disadvantage — one that could hurt state programs in recruiting. Teams would still not be able to pay athletes directly; that’s against NCAA rules. By repealing its name, image and likeness restrictions, Florida can have “full parity” with other states, Hutson said. “In my opinion, we in the state of Florida (don’t) want to keep coming back and chasing the NCAA every time they make new rules and new decisions, and they made some as recently as a couple weeks ago,” Hutson said. “So this bill just says we’re going to follow the NCAA, but more importantly be on an even playing field with the rest of the nation as it relates to what other states are doing.” Among the supporters was Sen. Corey Simon (R-Tallahassee), a former Florida State football star and NFL Pro Bowler. He said the change would remove Florida’s disadvantages while the NCAA “makes the changes necessary to bring college football into the 21st century.” “There’s more work to be done, and I look forward to seeing the NCAA as they come under new leadership to step forward and make those necessary changes,” Simon said. “They’ve abdicated their responsibility far too often. Now’s the time for them to step up and see the athlete for what it is …” The bill also requires schools to add a second workshop for players on issues like financial literacy, entrepreneurship and life skills. Most of the committee members who spoke during the meeting praised this as a way to help students learn time management and give them more financial advice as they enter their professional careers (in athletics or some other field). The third component provides liability protection for coaches and schools if their routine decisions (like benching or suspending a player) affect that athlete’s name, image and likeness deals. • • • Never miss out on the latest with the Bucs, Rays, Lightning, Florida college sports and more. Follow our Tampa Bay Times sports team on Twitter and Facebook.